
Vermont Laws
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Skip to subnav
Searching 2025-2026 Session
Return to current session
Vermont 
General 
Assembly
Home
Bills & Resolutions
Search
Bill, Act & Resolution Search
Bills
Released for Introduction
House Bills
Senate Bills
All Bills – Both Chambers
Bills Passed
Vetoed by the Governor
Enacted Without Signature
Bills In/Out of Committee
Resolutions
House Resolutions
Senate Resolutions
All Resolutions – Both Chambers
Resolutions Adopted
Acts
Acts & Resolves
Acts Affecting VSA Sections
Research
Legislative Reports & Research
Committees
House Committees
Agriculture, Food Resiliency, & Forestry
Appropriations
Commerce & Economic Development
Corrections & Institutions
Education
Energy & Digital Infrastructure
Environment
General & Housing
Government Operations & Military Affairs
Health Care
House Discrimination Prevention Panel
House Ethics Panel
House Sexual Harassment Prevention Panel
Human Services
Judiciary
Rules
Transportation
Ways & Means
Senate Committees
Agriculture
Appropriations
Economic Development, Housing & General Affairs
Education
Ethics
Finance
Government Operations
Health & Welfare
Institutions
Judiciary
Natural Resources & Energy
Rules
Sexual Harassment Prevention Panel
Transportation
Committee Types
All Committees
House Committees
Senate Committees
Joint Committees
Other Committees
Committees of Conference
All Committee Meetings
All Scheduled Committee Meetings
All Scheduled Committees of Conference Meetings
 -->
Complete Weekly Schedule
Streaming Links
Accessibility
Research
Legislative Reports & Research
Vermont Laws
Statutes
Vermont Statutes Online
Statutes Search
 Vermont Statutes at Lexis/Nexis
Constitution
Constitution of the State of Vermont
Acts
Acts & Resolves
Acts Affecting VSA Sections
Search
Bill, Act & Resolution Search
Rules
State Agency Rules at Lexis/Nexis 
Court Rules at Lexis/Nexis 
Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules (LCAR) 
House
 The House of Representatives
House Overview
Find Representatives
All Representatives
House Committees
Officers
Speaker of the House 
Clerk of the House
Calendars & Journals
Current House Calendar
All House Calendars
Current House Journal
All House Journals
House Bills for Introduction
Current Journal of the Joint Assembly
                                            -->
Journals of the Joint Assembly
Rules
House Rules
Joint Rules
Search
Search House Calendars & Journals
Related Information
Streaming Links
Senate
The Senate
Senate Overview
Find Senators
All Senators
Senate Committees
Officers
President of the Senate (Lt. Governor) 
President Pro Tempore 
Secretary of the Senate
Calendars & Journals
Current Senate Calendar
All Senate Calendars
Addendum 1
Current Senate Journal
All Senate Journals
Senate Bills for Introduction
Current Journal of the Joint Assembly
                                            -->
Journals of the Joint Assembly
Rules
Senate Rules
Joint Rules
Search
Search Senate Calendars & Journals
Related Information
Streaming Links
Joint Fiscal Office 
Reports & Research
Reports
Reports & Research Overview
Find Legislative Reports
Reports Required by Acts & Resolves
Research
Bills, Resolutions, Acts & Constitutional Proposals
Witness History
Subject History
Committees
Senate
House
Reapportionment
PRA Exemptions
PRA Exemptions in Order 
PRA Exemptions by Subject 
PRA Exemptions Subject to 1 VSA 317(d)(2) 
History
History of the General Assembly
The State House
The State House
Visiting the State House
About the State House 
Hours & Directions 
Accessibility
History
History of the General Assembly
Civic Education
Flowchart: How a Bill Becomes Law
Video: The Bill Process From Draft To Act 
Become a Legislative Page!
School Field Trips 
About Legislative Committees
Galleries
Images of the State House
Events
Farmers Night Concert Series
Staff & Offices
House
Speaker of the House 
Clerk of the House
Senate
President of the Senate (Lt. Governor) 
President Pro Tempore 
Secretary of the Senate
Staff Offices
Legislative Counsel
Legislative Information Technology
Joint Fiscal Office 
Sergeant at Arms
Capitol Police Department
Office of Human Resources
Contact
Questions & Comments
Career Opportunities
Career Opportunities
Search for:
				Bill or Resolution 
				Legislator 
				Committee 
How to use this search
Search bills:
Search legislators:
Search committees:
Search
Searching 2025-2026 Session
Print 
The Vermont Statutes Online
The Statutes below include the actions of the 2025 session of the General Assembly.
NOTE
: The Vermont Statutes Online is an unofficial copy of the Vermont Statutes Annotated that is provided as a convenience.
Title 
33
: 
 Human Services
Chapter  
063
: 
 Home Care Programs
Subchapter 
001
: 
HOME CARE SERVICES
§§ 6301-6303. Repealed. 2005, No. 57, § 7, eff. June 13, 2005.
Subchapter 
001A
: 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6301. Policy
It is the policy of the State of Vermont to ensure that all residents in every town
            within the State have access to comprehensive, medically necessary home health services
            without regard to their ability to pay for those services and to ensure that such
            services are delivered in an efficient and cost-effective manner, under a regulatory
            framework designed to control costs and ensure access to high quality home health
            services based on a model that promotes cooperation and nonduplication of services,
            rather than unregulated competition. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005.)
§ 6302. Definitions
As used in this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated:
(1) “Family member” means an individual who is related to a person by blood, civil marriage,
            civil union, or adoption, or who considers himself or herself to be family based upon
            bonds of affection, and who currently shares a household with such a person or has,
            in the past, shared a household with that person. For purposes of this definition,
            the phrase “bonds of affection” means enduring ties that do not depend on the existence
            of an economic relationship.
(2) “Home health agency” means a for-profit or nonprofit health care facility providing
            part-time or intermittent skilled nursing services and at least one of the following
            other therapeutic services made available on a visiting basis, in a place of residence
            used as a patient’s home: physical, speech, or occupational therapy; medical social
            services; home health aide services; or other non-nursing therapeutic services, including
            the services of nutritionists, dieticians, psychologists, and licensed mental health
            counselors.
(3) “Home health services” means activities and functions of a home health agency, including
            nurses, home health aides, physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech therapists,
            medical social workers, or other non-nursing therapeutic services directly related
            to care, treatment, or diagnosis of patients in the home. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005.)
§ 6303. Home health services; local plans; board composition
(a) Consistent with the requirements of this section, the Commissioner of Disabilities,
            Aging, and Independent Living shall adopt by rule minimum program standards for the
            purpose of providing quality oversight of the home health agencies authorized to provide
            home health services under this subchapter. The minimum program standards shall include
            performance standards, quality measures, grievance and complaint procedures, patient
            safety standards, consumer input mechanisms, accessibility standards, medical necessity
            standards, and practices to ensure confidentiality of patient records. The rules shall
            also include minimum program standards to ensure home health agencies do not discriminate
            in the provision of services based on income, funding source, geographic status, or
            severity of health needs and to ensure the attainment or continuance of universal
            access to medically necessary home health services.
(b) Designated home health agencies shall engage in planning and needs assessment processes
            as directed by State and federal law, which may include participating in the development
            of the Health Resource Allocation Plan published pursuant to 18 V.S.A. § 9405 and the community health needs assessment conducted in accordance with 26 U.S.C. § 501(r)(3).
(c) On or before January 1, 2008, the board of each nonprofit designated home health agency
            shall be representative of the demographic makeup of the area or areas served by the
            agency or by the health care facility governed by the board. A majority of the members
            of the board shall be composed of individuals who have received or currently are receiving
            services from the agency or from the health care facility governed by the board and
            family members of individuals who have received or currently are receiving such services.
            The board president shall survey board members annually and certify to the Commissioner
            that the composition of the board meets the requirements of this subsection. The composition
            of the board shall also be confirmed by the agency’s annual independent audit. The
            board shall have overall responsibility and control of the planning and operation
            of the home health agency, including development of the local community services plan.
(d) On or before January 1, 2008, each for-profit designated home health agency shall
            have an advisory board, which shall be representative of the demographic makeup of
            the area or areas served by the agency. A majority of the members of the advisory
            board shall be composed of individuals who have received or currently are receiving
            services from the agency and family members of individuals who have received or currently
            are receiving such services. The advisory board president shall survey board members
            annually and certify to the Commissioner that the composition of the board meets the
            requirements of this subsection. The composition of the board shall also be confirmed
            by the agency’s annual independent audit. The advisory board shall meet at least twice
            per year and shall advise the agency’s board of directors with respect to planning
            and operation of the home health agency, patient needs, and development of the local
            community services plan.
(e) [Repealed.] (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005; amended 2009, No. 33, § 83; 2015, No. 11, § 38; 2019, No. 156 (Adj. Sess.), § 7a, eff. Oct. 5, 2020.)
§ 6304. Designation; geographic service areas
(a) The Commissioner shall specify by rule standards and procedures for home health agency
            designation, redesignation, and designation revocation. The designation shall provide
            each designated agency a franchise to provide home health services within one or more
            geographic service areas within which it shall have the obligation and responsibility
            of providing home health services for four years, except as provided in subsection
            (d) of this section. No home health agency shall render home health services to patients
            residing in a designated service area without being designated by the Commissioner
            to serve patients in that service area.
(b) Initial designations shall reflect the geographic service areas of existing home health
            agencies and any agencies contained in a certificate of need granted under 18 V.S.A. chapter 221 prior to or following June 13, 2005, provided the certificate of need, if not yet
            approved, was pending on June 13, 2005. The initial geographic service areas shall
            include:
(1) Addison County Home Health & Hospice, Inc.: the cities and towns of Addison County,
            with the exception of Hancock and Granville.
(2) VNA & Hospice of Southwestern Vermont Health Care, Inc.: the towns of Pownal, Bennington,
            Woodford, Shaftsbury, and Glastenbury.
(3) Franklin County Home Health Agency, Inc.: the cities and towns of Franklin County.
(4) VNA of Chittenden and Grand Isle Counties, Inc.: the cities and towns of Chittenden
            and Grand Isle counties.
(5) Lamoille Home Health Agency, Inc. d/b/a Lamoille Home Health & Hospice: the cities
            and towns of Lamoille County.
(6) Central Vermont Home Health & Hospice, Inc.: the cities and towns of Washington County
            and the towns of Orange, Williamstown, and Washington.
(7) Dorset Nursing Association, Inc.: the towns of Dorset, Rupert, and Pawlet.
(8) Rutland Area VNA & Hospice, Inc.: the cities and towns of Rutland County, with the
            exception of Pawlet.
(9) Manchester Health Services, Inc.: the towns of Manchester, Arlington, Sunderland,
            and Sandgate.
(10) Northern Counties Health Care, Inc., d/b/a Caledonia Home Health Care & Hospice: the
            cities and towns of Caledonia County and the towns of Concord, Lunenburg, Victory,
            Granby, Guildhall, Maidstone, East Haven, and Greensboro.
(11) Orleans Essex VNA & Hospice, Inc.: the cities and towns of Orleans County with the
            exception of Greensboro and the towns, gores, and grants of Norton, Canaan, Averill,
            Lewis, Lemington, Bloomfield, Brunswick, Brighton, Ferdinand, Avery’s Gore, Warren’s
            Gore, and Warner’s Grant.
(12) VNA & Hospice of Vermont and New Hampshire, Inc.: the cities and towns of Windsor
            County, Windham County, Orange County (with the exception of the towns of Orange,
            Washington, and Williamstown) and the towns of Hancock, Granville, Searsburg, Readsboro,
            Stamford, Landgrove, Winhall, and Peru.
(c) Designations for new home health agencies shall be established pursuant to certificates
            of need approved by the Green Mountain Care Board. Thereafter, designations shall
            be subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(d) The initial designations made under subsection (b) of this section shall expire according
            to staggered terms prescribed by the Commissioner.
(e) Agencies seeking redesignation to continue providing home health services shall file
            an application for redesignation in a form and manner prescribed by the Commissioner.
(f) In reviewing applications from agencies seeking to expand or reduce the offering of
            home health services, the Commissioner shall determine whether the application is
            consistent with the Health Resource Allocation Plan established under 18 V.S.A. § 9405. In addition, the Commissioner shall use the data collected under subsection 6305(b) of this title when reviewing any applications for additional home health agencies to operate in
            any area of the State.
(g) The Commissioner shall adopt by rule standards and procedures for designation revocation.
            In particular, an agency’s designation shall be revoked if:
(1) the local community services plan is inadequate to meet the needs of the area served
            by the home health agency;
(2) the agency, for reasons other than the lack of resources, has failed or refused to
            implement an otherwise adequate local community services plan; or
(3) the agency has failed to meet the performance standards adopted under this subchapter,
            has been given written notice of the performance deficiency, and has failed to remediate
            the deficiency within the time specified in the notice.
(h) Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit collaboration among two
            or more such home health agencies in delivering needed services to patients pursuant
            to an affiliation, sharing, or other agreement under appropriate circumstances approved
            by the Commissioner under section 6306 of this title. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005; amended 2013, No. 79, § 49c.)
§ 6305. Review of access, cost, and quality issues; remediation process
(a) The Commissioner shall exercise such duties and responsibilities as shall be necessary
            for the implementation of this subchapter and for the active, ongoing supervision
            of the activities of the home health agencies under this subchapter.
(b) In a form and manner and at intervals prescribed by the Commissioner, the Commissioner
            shall collect and analyze data regarding access to and the cost and quality of home
            health services in Vermont. The data shall include information on complaints, waiting
            lists, numbers of individuals ineligible for services, numbers of individuals eligible
            for but not provided services, numbers of patients served under 65 years of age and
            65 years of age and over, total number of visits and hours provided to patients by
            each of the existing home health agencies; the results of patient surveys conducted
            by the home health agencies; data pertaining to federal and State surveys; scoring
            by any national accrediting organization; charitable and subsidized programs and services
            for uninsured individuals or individuals with low income in their respective communities;
            copies of audited financial statements and annual cost reports; and any other quality
            measures or data deemed relevant by the Commissioner to monitor and evaluate access
            to and the cost and quality of home health services by the designated home health
            agencies.
(c) The Commissioner shall consider the data collected under subsection (b) of this section
            in undertaking active, ongoing supervision to monitor performance of the designated
            home health agencies with respect to access, cost, and quality of home health services.
(d) If the Commissioner determines that a home health agency has failed to comply with
            any performance standards established by the Commissioner related to access, cost,
            or quality issues in any area of the State, or has violated a rule or provision of
            this subchapter, the Commissioner may investigate and enforce the provisions of this
            subchapter pursuant to the authority and procedures conferred upon the Commissioner
            under chapter 71 of this title as if the home health agency were a nursing home, except
            that the Commissioner shall adopt by rule penalties specific to home health agencies. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005; amended 2015, No. 11, § 39; 2021, No. 20, § 337; 2021, No. 105 (Adj. Sess.), § 625, eff. July 1, 2022.)
§ 6306. Collaboration and shared service agreements
(a) In order to further the State’s goals of facilitating universal access to a full range
            of quality home health services at the lowest practicable cost throughout the State,
            the home health agencies are authorized and encouraged by the General Assembly to
            enter into and perform the following types of cooperative arrangements among two or
            more agencies:
(1) agreements or understandings to pool or share one or more administrative functions,
            services, or expenses;
(2) agreements or understandings to pool or share certain staffing, including skilled
            nursing and other personnel;
(3) group purchasing arrangements designed to obtain the benefits of volume discounts
            and achieve other cost savings and efficiencies for the benefit of consumers;
(4) agreements with managed care plans or other third-party payers, at their request and
            on a nonexclusive basis, to provide their members with prescribed home health services
            on discounted groupwide or statewide rates, terms, and conditions;
(5) agreements or understandings to provide home health services, on an occasional or
            sporadic basis, to patients located in the designated service area of another home
            health agency due to special needs or other exceptional circumstances preventing the
            prompt and efficient servicing of such patients by that other home health agency or
            where otherwise necessary to achieve the purposes of this subchapter; and
(6) agreements related to the sharing of information and technology.
(b) No agreement or understanding of the types specified in subsection (a) of this section,
            which are entered into subsequent to June 13, 2005, shall be valid or effective unless
            and until it has received the written approval of the Commissioner. Any such agreement
            or understanding shall be submitted to the Commissioner for approval or disapproval
            within 30 days of execution, and the Commissioner shall have 90 days from receipt
            of such filing within which to approve or disapprove the agreement.
(c) Any and all agreements or understandings of the types specified in subsection (a)
            of this section, which have been entered into prior to June 13, 2005, shall be valid
            and effective for 12 months following June 13, 2005 but not thereafter, unless they
            have received within that 12-month period the written approval of the Commissioner.
            The Commissioner shall have 90 days from receipt of such filing within which to approve
            or disapprove the agreement.
(d) In rendering a decision on any application submitted under subsection (b) or (c) of
            this section, the Commissioner shall actively scrutinize the terms of the proposed
            agreement and consider all relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the agreement,
            as determined in the Commissioner’s discretion and pursuant to procedures specified
            by rule by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall approve the agreement only if
            the Commissioner determines that it is in the public interest and is consistent with
            the purposes and policies set forth in this subchapter, including ensuring that all
            residents of the State have access to quality home health services delivered in an
            efficient and cost-effective manner.
(e) Agreements or understandings to pool or share certain staffing, including skilled
            nursing and other personnel, entered into on a temporary basis, as that term may be
            defined by the Commissioner, to meet the particular needs of an agency’s patients
            and avoid temporary gaps in services shall be valid and effective without the necessity
            of obtaining approval by the Commissioner under subsection (b) or (c) of this section.
(f) In authorizing the agreements and understandings of the types specified in subsection
            (a) of this section and the activities conducted under those agreements and understandings,
            the General Assembly intends that its action have the effect of permitting and granting
            State action immunity for any actions that might otherwise be considered to be in
            violation of State or federal antitrust laws, in order to accomplish the public policy
            objectives of this subchapter. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005; amended 2021, No. 20, § 338.)
§ 6307. Contracts with nondesignated agencies
The Commissioner may enter into agreements with home health agencies or with any public
            or private agency for the purpose of establishing specialized home health services
            needed but not available from the designated home health agencies. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005.)
§ 6308. Complaint process
The Commissioner shall establish by rule standards and procedures ensuring that each
            designated home health agency has in place sufficient minimum grievance procedures
            allowing recipients of home health services, their family members, and employees of
            a home health agency to file complaints about access to or the cost or quality of
            home health services, or about other matters related to the operations of the home
            health agency. In addition, the rules shall ensure that the Department of Disabilities,
            Aging, and Independent Living establishes and maintains an external complaint process
            for clients, their family members, and employees of a home health agency, including
            a toll-free telephone line dedicated to receiving consumer complaints. (Added 2005, No. 57, § 8, eff. June 13, 2005.)
§ 6309. Staff safety; discharge from service
(a) If an individual was previously discharged from service by a home health agency to
            protect the safety of staff in accordance with the rules adopted by the Department
            of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living pursuant to subsection 6303(a) of this
            chapter, and the behavior or conditions causing the discharge cannot be reasonably
            mitigated or eliminated, a home health agency may:
(1) deny a subsequent admission; or
(2) decline to send a home health agency employee to make a visit if the home health agency
            has reason to believe that the individual who exhibited the behavior that resulted
            in the discharge is present in the home.
(b) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a home health agency to enter
            a home to determine if a risk can be mitigated or eliminated.
(c) A home health agency shall provide notice of any denial of admission made pursuant
            to this section. The notice shall include the reason for the denial of admission and
            information regarding how an individual may submit a complaint pursuant to section
            6308 of this chapter in accordance with the rules adopted by the Department of Disabilities,
            Aging, and Independent Living pursuant to subsection 6303(a) of this chapter. (Added 2023, No. 115 (Adj. Sess.), § 3, eff. July 1, 2024.)
Subchapter 
002
: 
ATTENDANT CARE SERVICES
§ 6321. Attendant care services
(a) As used in this section:
(1) “Attendant care services” means one or more of the following types of care or service
            provided for compensation: assistance with personal care, including dressing, bathing,
            shaving, and grooming, and assistance with eating, meal preparation, and ambulation.
            Recipients of attendant care services shall have the opportunity to hire, train, and
            terminate the employment of attendants as necessary, establish work schedules, manage
            the services, and oversee payments of attendants and recordkeeping.
(2) “Group-directed attendant care” means attendant care services provided by one or more
            attendants to a group of unrelated individuals who reside in the same residence.
(3) “Personal services” means attendant care services provided to a Medicaid-eligible
            individual who is an elder or has a disability in his or her home, which are necessary
            to avoid institutionalization.
(4) “Participant-directed attendant care” means attendant care services for an individual
            who has a permanent and severe disability who requires service in at least two activities
            of daily living in order to live independently.
(b) The Department shall establish an Attendant Care Services Program to assist eligible
            individuals to gain or retain their independence.  The Attendant Care Services Program
            shall include a Participant-Directed Attendant Care Program, a Group-Directed Attendant
            Care Program, and a personal services program.
(c) Information received or compiled by the Department with respect to individuals using
            attendant care services shall be confidential.
(d) The Commissioner shall adopt rules to implement the provisions of this section, including
            eligibility criteria for the programs, criteria for determining service needs, rules
            relating to control and oversight of services by beneficiaries of a program, and procedures
            for handling and maintaining confidential information. Prior to filing a proposed
            rule, the Commissioner shall seek input from individuals with disabilities, elders,
            and organizations that represent such individuals.
(e) Grievances brought under this section shall be heard by the Human Services Board.
(f) Workers who provide attendant care, as defined in program rules of the Department
            of Disabilities, Aging, and Independent Living, personal care, companion care, respite
            care, or support services to persons who receive financial assistance from the Agency
            of Human Services through its departments and offices, and whose payroll service is
            provided directly by the State or by an intermediary payroll service organization
            acting under the authority of the State are exempt from 21 V.S.A. § 342 and shall not be construed as State employees except for purposes of 21 V.S.A. chapters
            9 and 17.
(g) The State may provide workers’ compensation coverage to workers who provide attendant
            care, personal care, companion care, respite care, or support services to persons
            who receive financial assistance from the Agency of Human Services through programs
            administered by its departments and offices, and whose payroll service is provided
            directly by the State or by an intermediary payroll service organization acting under
            the authority of the State. The State or its intermediary payroll service organization
            shall be considered a single entity for purposes of purchasing a single workers’ compensation
            insurance policy providing coverage for such workers.
(h) Subsections (f) and (g) of this section are intended to permit the State to provide
            workers’ compensation and unemployment compensation and shall not be considered for
            any other purposes. (Added 1989, No. 75, § 1; amended 2003, No. 122 (Adj. Sess.), § 147; 2005, No. 174 (Adj. Sess.), § 123; 2007, No. 192 (Adj. Sess.), § 6.019.1; 2013, No. 96 (Adj. Sess.), § 214.)
Statutes
Vermont Statutes Online
Statutes Search
Vermont Statutes at Lexis/Nexis
Constitution
Constitution of the State of Vermont
Acts
Acts & Resolves
Acts Affecting VSA Sections
Rules
State Agency Rules at Lexis/Nexis
Court Rules at Lexis/Nexis
Legislative Committee on Administrative Rules (LCAR)
Contact
Vermont State House 
115 State Street 
Montpelier, VT 05633-5301 
(802) 828-2228 
 sgtatarms@leg.state.vt.us
Capitol Police Department 
802-828-2273
Member & Staff Links
Legislative Email Sign-on
Legislative Human Resources
Legislative Time Reporting
Legislative Expense Reporting
Test My MFA
How to Use This Website
Disclaimer
State Government
State of Vermont
Governor
Lieutenant Governor
Attorney General
Auditor
Secretary of State
Treasurer
Judiciary
State Agencies A-Z
State Telephone Directory
Noteworthy
Announcements
Scheduled Committee Meetings
Legislative Schedule
Site Resources
Sitemap
 | 
Disclaimers
Questions & Comments
 | 
Career Opportunities
Requests for Proposals
 | 
 Accessibility
				Comments or questions about the website? Fill out our 
feedback form
 and let us know.
Developers
Copyright 2026 State of Vermont. All rights reserved.
Website Design & Development by Bluehouse Group
