
Chapter 12
 Facilities and Local Units
Article 1
 Medical Facilities
7 AAC 12.010.  Regulations for the licensing, maintenance and operation of hospitals.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.020.  Regulations for hospital construction and equipment.
Repealed 4/28/77.
7 AAC 12.030.  Preparation of plans and specifications for hospitals.
Repealed 4/28/77.
7 AAC 12.040.  Licensing, operation, and maintenance of nursing homes.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.045.  Alaska nursing home administrator licensing board; licensing requirements.
Annulled under 
AS 44.62.320
, passed 5/3/76.
7 AAC 12.050.  Nursing home construction and equipment.
Repealed 4/28/77.
7 AAC 12.060.  Preparation of nursing home plans and specifications.
Repealed 4/28/77.
Article 1A
 Intermediate Care Facilities
Repealed 11/19/83
Article 2
 Local Health Units and Districts
Repealed 2/10/83
Article 3
 General Acute Care Rural Primary Care Long-term Acute Care and Critical Access Hospitals
7 AAC 12.100.  Scope.
The provisions of 
7 AAC 12.100
 - 
7 AAC 12.190
 apply to general acute care hospitals, that provide the services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(a), rural primary care hospitals that provide the services described in 
7 AAC 12.102
, long-term acute care hospitals that provide the services described in 
7 AAC 12.103
, and critical access hospitals that provide the services described in 
7 AAC 12.104
. The department will consider all four types as hospitals under 
7 AAC 12.100
 - 
7 AAC 12.190
.
7 AAC 12.102.  Determination of rural primary care hospital.
(a) The department will consider a facility as a rural primary care hospital if the department finds that the facility   
 	(1) provides inpatient hospitalization for medical care of acute illness or injury;   
 	(2) has no more than 25 acute care beds;   
 	(3) is located in a rural area of no more than 15,000 residents, based on the most recent calculations of the United States Bureau of Census; and   
 	(4) does not provide all of the following services:   
 		(A) surgical service;   
 		(B) anesthesia service;   
 		(C) perinatal care;   
 		(D) one or more of the following therapies:   
 		 	(i) speech therapy;   
 		 	(ii) occupational therapy;   
 		 	(iii) physical therapy.   
(b) If the facility provides all of the services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(a), the department will consider the facility as a general acute care hospital even though it otherwise might qualify as a rural primary care hospital under this section.
7 AAC 12.103.  Determination of long-term acute care hospital.
The department will consider a facility as a long-term acute care hospital if the department finds that the facility   
 	(1) provides inpatient hospitalization for medical care of acute illness or injury for patients who have complex medical conditions and require long-term acute care;   
 	(2) is located in close proximity to a general acute care hospital;   
 	(3) meets the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.100
 - 
7 AAC 12.190
 and 
7 AAC 12.600
 - 
7 AAC 12.990
;   
 	(4) provides all of the services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(c); and   
 	(5) does not provide any of the following services:   
 		(A) surgical service;   
 		(B) anesthesia service;   
 		(C) outpatient services;   
 		(D) perinatal care;   
 		(E) emergency services.
7 AAC 12.104.  Determination of critical access hospital.
(a) The department will consider a facility as a critical access hospital if the department finds that the facility   
 	(1) provides inpatient short-term hospitalization for medical care of acute illness or injury;   
 	(2) has no more than 25 inpatient beds;   
 	(3) is located in a rural area of no more than 15,000 residents, based on the most recent calculations of the United States Bureau of Census; and   
 	(4) meets the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.100
 - 
7 AAC 12.190
 and 
7 AAC 12.600
 - 
7 AAC 12.990
.   
(b) If a facility provides all of the services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(a), the facility may elect to be licensed as either a general acute care hospital or a critical access hospital.   
(c) If a facility qualifies both as a rural primary care hospital under 
7 AAC 12.102
 and as a critical access hospital under this section, the facility may elect to be licensed as either a rural primary care hospital or a critical access hospital.
7 AAC 12.105.  Services required.
(a) A general acute care hospital must provide surgical, anesthesia, perinatal, medical, nursing, pharmaceutical, dietetic, laundry, medical records, radiological, laboratory, and emergency care services. A general acute care hospital must also provide speech, occupational, or physical therapy services.   
(b) A rural primary care hospital or a critical access hospital must provide the services described in (a) of this section, except that the provision of surgical, anesthesia, perinatal, speech, occupational therapy, or physical therapy services is optional.   
(c) A long-term acute care hospital must provide medical, nursing, pharmaceutical, dietetic, occupational therapy, physical therapy, laundry, medical records, radiological, social work, respiratory, and laboratory services.
7 AAC 12.110.  Medical staff.
(a) A general acute care hospital, a rural primary care hospital, a long-term acute care hospital, or a critical access hospital shall have a medical staff.   
(b) The medical staff shall organize and adopt, with the approval of the facility's governing body, bylaws and rules that provide for   
 	(1) eligibility for medical staff membership, and recommending appointments to the governing body;   
 	(2) appointment of committees, including executive, credentials, medical records, tissue and transfusion, infection control, pharmacy and therapeutics, and utilization review committees, that shall keep written minutes of each committee meeting, including committee activities and recommendations;   
 	(3) election of officers, including a chief of staff; and   
 	(4) quarterly meetings, with minutes and records of attendance to be maintained for at least five years.   
(c) The medical staff shall   
 	(1) recommend to the governing body the appointment of and the medical and surgical privileges for each member of the medical staff annually, or if approved by the governing body, biennially;   
 	(2) ensure that   
 		(A) a physician is available at all times to respond to an emergency in a general acute care hospital or a rural primary care hospital; and   
 		(B) a physician or a mid-level practitioner with training or experience in emergency care is on call and immediately available by telephone or radio contact and available on site within 30 minutes on a 24-hours-per-day basis in a critical access hospital or a long-term acute care hospital;   
 	(3) place each patient under the care of a member of the medical staff;  
 	(4) require that an order of a practitioner, including a telephonic or other oral order, be reduced to writing and, within three days after the order is given, be dated, timed, and either initialed or signed by that practitioner or by another practitioner responsible for the care of the patient, even if the order did not originate with the other practitioner;   
 	(5) ensure that the use of an investigational drug is properly supervised by a member of the medical staff, that an informed consent form provided by the sponsoring company or agency is used, and that complete records on the drug, including protocol and side effects, are maintained;   
 	(6) establish procedures for circumstances in which consultation is required;   
 	(7) establish standards for care by residents, interns, and medical students in accordance with a residency training program approved by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association, the American Dental Association, or an applicable specialty board;   
 	(8) review at regular intervals clinical and scientific work, medical services, and maintenance of accurate medical records;   
 	(9) establish guidelines for referral to a pathologist of anatomical parts, foreign objects, and tissues removed by surgery;   
 	(10) establish procedures for selection and supervision of advanced practice registered nurses and physician assistants;   
 	(11) ensure that the medical history and physical examination for each patient are completed no more than 30 days before, or 24 hours after, admission; if completed within 30 days before admission, the medical staff must ensure that within 24 hours after admission   
 		(A) an updated history and examination are completed to determine any change in the patient's condition; and   
 		(B) the updated history and examination required under (A) of this paragraph are documented in the patient's medical record, with any change noted.   
(d) The onsite medical staff of a critical access hospital may consist exclusively of mid-level practitioners if   
 	(1) the hospital is a member of a rural health network as described in 42 C.F.R. 485.603, as amended through July 1, 1999 and adopted by reference;   
 	(2) the mid-level practitioners are subject to the oversight of a physician who is also a member of the medical staff of the critical access hospital, even though the physician might not be present in the facility, if   
 		(A) a physician who is member of the medical staff of the critical access hospital is notified whenever a patient is admitted to the hospital by a mid-level practitioner;   
 		(B) a physician is available through direct radio or telephone communication for consultation, assistance with medical emergencies, or patient referral;   
 		(C) except in extraordinary circumstances, a physician is present in the facility for sufficient periods of time, at least once every two week period, to provide appropriate medical direction, medical care services, consultation, and supervision; however, a site visit by a physician is not required if no patients have been treated since the latest site visit by a physician; and   
 		(D) any extraordinary circumstances that prevent a site visit by a physician when required under (C) of this paragraph are documented in the records of the hospital;   
 	(3) the mid-level practitioners participate   
 		(A) in the development, execution, and periodic review of the written policies governing the services provided by the hospital; and   
 		(B) in a periodic review of the health records of patients with a physician; and   
 	(4) the mid-level practitioners perform the following functions when the functions are not performed by a physician:   
 		(A) provide services in accordance with the hospital's policies;   
 		(B) arrange for, or refer patients to, needed services that cannot be furnished at the hospital;   
 		(C) assure that adequate patient health records are maintained and transferred as required if patients are referred or services are arranged under (B) of this paragraph.
7 AAC 12.120.  Surgical service.
(a) A registered nurse with knowledge and experience in surgical techniques and procedures must have supervisory responsibility for the surgical suite and, in cooperation with the surgical committee of the medical staff, if the hospital has one, and the infection control committee, establish policies and procedures for the surgical service.   
(b) A list of which surgical privileges are held by individual members of the medical staff must be available in the surgical suite for reference by the supervisor.   
(c) Before a surgical procedure begins, either the surgeon or the person responsible for administering anesthesia, and the surgical supervisor or his designee shall confirm the patient's identity and the site and side of the body to be operated upon, and ascertain that the patient's medical record contains a complete history and physical examination for the current admission, appropriate current screening tests based on the needs of the patient, and signed informed consent for the surgery. In the case of an emergency, the history and physical examination requirements are waived.   
(d) A daily register of operations must be maintained.   
(e) Emergency equipment, including thoracotomy and tracheotomy sets and a defibrillator, must be available in the surgical suite area when surgery is being performed.   
(f) As determined by medical staff under 
7 AAC 12.110
(c)(9), anatomical parts, tissues, and foreign objects which have been removed by operation, must be referred to a pathologist designated by the hospital. A report of the pathologist's findings must be filed in the patient's medical record.   
(g) A registered nurse must be present to circulate for each surgical procedure.   
(h) A rural primary care hospital or a critical access hospital must meet the standards set out in 
7 AAC 12.130
 if its governing body elects to offer surgical service.
7 AAC 12.130.  Anesthesia service.
(a) A general acute care hospital must have an anesthesia service. A physician must have overall responsibility for supervision of the anesthesia service.   
(b) Anesthesia care may be provided only by a physician or dentist with anesthesia privileges, a registered nurse anesthetist, or an appropriately supervised trainee in an educational program approved by the department.   
(c) An anesthesia staff member shall be available or on call at all times.   
(d) Anesthesia procedures developed by an anesthetist or anesthesiologist must provide for written documentation of the following:   
 	(1) visits to a patient by an anesthetist or anesthesiologist before and after the patient has been administered an anesthesia; the post-anesthesia evaluation of a patient may be completed and documented by any individual described in (b) of this section and qualified to administer anesthesia;   
 	(2) the choice of anesthesia;   
 	(3) the surgical procedure and presence or absence of complications;   
 	(4) a record of events during the induction, maintenance and emergence from anesthesia; and   
 	(5) the amount and duration of anesthetic agents, other drugs, intravenous fluids and blood or blood products administered.   
(e) Rules for the safe use of flammable anesthetic agents must conform to the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards set out in   NFPA 99: Standard for Health Care Facilities, 2005 edition, adopted by reference.
7 AAC 12.140.  Critical care service.
(a) If a hospital has a critical care service, a physician must have overall responsibility for the medical supervision of it.   
(b) A registered nurse with education and experience in critical care nursing must also be responsible for supervision and operation of the service.   
(c) Written criteria for determining patient admissions and discharge must be approved by the medical staff or, if the hospital has one, the critical care service committee.   
(d) Emergency equipment and supplies, as determined by the medical staff or critical care service committee if the hospital has one, must be readily available.
7 AAC 12.150.  Perinatal service.
(a) A general acute care hospital must offer perinatal services that include either   
 	(1) an intensive care newborn nursery and other hospital facilities capable of treating the mother if problems arise that are beyond the normal capability of the perinatal service unit; or   
 	(2) arrangements for consultation with a perinatal service unit at another hospital that has the capabilities described in (a)(1) of this section and the transfer of an infant or mother to that unit when necessary; the arrangements must include, at a minimum, the ability to immediately contact the other hospital by telephone or radio, and the ability to immediately obtain transportation for the mother or infant by the fastest method available.   
(b) A hospital must provide individualized care for each infant patient.   
(c) Every infant, whether a new patient or one transferred from another location, must be evaluated for evidence of infection before admission to a hospital.   
(d) An infant who develops symptoms of an infection must be isolated from other infants immediately.   
(e) Newborn infants must be marked for identification in the delivery room. The method of identification must positively identify an infant with the name of its mother, except when the infant is being placed for adoption.   
(f) A hospital must have the capability for operative delivery at all times.   
(g) Smoking must be prohibited in delivery rooms and nurseries.   
(h) A general acute care hospital may obtain a waiver under 
7 AAC 12.900
(h) for its perinatal service only if   
 	(1) the hospital has 25 or fewer acute care beds and 200 or fewer obstetrical deliveries per year;   
 	(2) the hospital establishes a policy governing the use of a combined obstetrical delivery and surgical suite which ensures that a patient who presents an obstetrical emergency which requires immediate medical intervention to preserve the health and life of a mother or her infant is given first priority, and an obstetrical patient for whom delivery is imminent is given second priority, over other obstetrical and nonemergency surgical patients;   
 	(3) the hospital's infection control committee established under 
7 AAC 12.760
 defines policies and procedures designed to prevent the transmission of infection through the use of combined surgical and obstetrical delivery suite facilities, and maintains a system for discovery, reporting, and investigation of all infections occurring in surgical patients, postpartum patients and neonates;   
 	(4) a record of reports and investigations of all infections described in (3) of this subsection is kept on file for two years;   
 	(5) the hospital excludes from the combined obstetrical delivery surgical room   
 		(i) surgery on persons who have a known or suspected acute or chronic infection;   
 		(ii) surgery on persons who are known carriers of a communicable disease before the maximum incubation period of the disease has expired;   
 		(iii) change or removal of a cast;   
 		(iv) mouth, nose, or throat surgery; and   
 		(v) intestinal, rectal, anal, or perianal surgery other than an incidental or emergency appendectomy; and   
 	(6) the hospital establishes policies and procedures and maintains appropriate equipment and supplies for rapid conversion of a labor room to an emergency delivery room if an obstetrical delivery becomes imminent at a time when all obstetrical delivery rooms or operating rooms are in use.   
(i) A rural primary care hospital or a critical access hospital must meet the standards in this section if the governing body elects to offer perinatal service.
7 AAC 12.160.  Psychiatric service.
(a) If a hospital has a psychiatric service, the psychiatric service must adopt a policy which provides for regular in-service training of the staff in methods of care for persons who are mentally ill.   
(b) Standards for the care of persons who are mentally ill must be developed by mental health professionals, approved by the medical staff, and be made readily available to patient care personnel.   
(c) Beginning January 1, 1995, a hospital that is not a specialized hospital as described in 
7 AAC 12.200
 must meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.215
(b) - (g) if it offers inpatient psychiatric services in addition to those needed to provide a 72 evaluation under 
AS 47.30.700
 - 47.30.915.
7 AAC 12.170.  Respiratory therapy service.
(a) If a hospital has a respiratory therapy service, the respiratory therapy service must apply central service standards established in 
7 AAC 12.730
 in decontamination and processing of supplies and equipment.   
(b) A physician must have overall responsibility for the medical supervision of the respiratory therapy service.
7 AAC 12.180.  Long-term care service.
If a hospital provides long-term care service, the service must also comply with 
7 AAC 12.250
 - 
7 AAC 12.290
. The requirements of this section do not apply to a long-term acute care hospital.
7 AAC 12.190.  Designation of critical access hospital under Medicare.
(a) The department will designate a hospital that is licensed under this chapter as a critical access hospital under Medicare if the hospital meets the conditions of participation set out at 42 C.F.R. 485.601 - 42 C.F.R. 485.645, as amended through July 1, 1999 and adopted by reference, and the requirements of this section.   
(b) To be eligible for designation as a critical access hospital under Medicare, a hospital must satisfy the criteria set out at 42 U.S.C. 1395i-4(c)(2)(B) and hold a license under 
7 AAC 12
 as a hospital. An eligible hospital that wishes to be designated as a critical access hospital under Medicare must submit to the department   
 	(1) an application on a form provided by the department;   
 	(2) a description of the area served by the applicant;   
 	(3) a community needs assessment analyzing the availability and utilization of health care services in the applicant's service area, including acute care, primary care, and emergency services, and a discussion of how operating as a critical access hospital under Medicare will better serve community needs;   
 	(4) the applicant's plan for the delivery of health services within the applicant's service area;   
 	(5) a financial feasibility study that analyzes the financial impact on the applicant of operating as a critical access hospital under Medicare, taking into account relevant operational factors, including changes in utilization, services, staffing, and Medicare reimbursement;   
 	(6) a community education plan that describes the steps that have been or will be taken to educate and involve the residents of the service area in the decision to operate as a critical access hospital under Medicare;   
 	(7) an emergency services plan that coordinates the provision of emergency medical services in the applicant's service area;   
 	(8) a description of the volume capacity of the applicant and other related health care resources within the applicant's service area;   
 	(9) the distance and travel time to other health care resources within the applicant's service area; and   
 	(10) identification of barriers to accessing health care in the applicant's service area.   
(c) Within 30 days after receipt of an application for designation as a critical access hospital under Medicare, the department will review the application for completeness. If the application is complete, the department will evaluate the application and designate the hospital as a critical access hospital under Medicare if the department determines that the applicant meets the requirements of this section.   
(d) If the application submitted under (b) of this section is not complete or an applicant does not meet the requirements of this section, the department will   
 	(1) return the application for additional information, as necessary; or  
 	(2) decline to designate the applicant as a critical access hospital under Medicare.   
(e) The department will, in its discretion, certify a hospital as a "necessary provider of health care services" for the purposes of 42 U.S.C. 1395i-4(c)(2)(B)(i)(II) if the hospital is less than a 35-mile drive from another hospital or, in the case of mountainous terrain or in areas with only secondary roads available, is less than a 15-mile drive from another hospital, and if the other hospital provides services only to a certain population group or subgroup and does not routinely provide services to all members of the community in which it is located.   
(f) In this section, "critical access hospital under Medicare" means a critical access hospital under 42 U.S.C. 1395i-4 (Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility Program).
Article 4
 Specialized Hospitals
7 AAC 12.200.  Scope.
A hospital which is primarily engaged in the treatment of one specific type of illness or disability is a specialized hospital, and must comply with 
7 AAC 12.200
 - 
7 AAC 12.210
 and the applicable provisions of 
7 AAC 12.215
 - 
7 AAC 12.225
.
7 AAC 12.205.  Services required.
A hospital described in 
7 AAC 12.200
 must provide nursing, dietetic, medical record, and pharmaceutical services on site. Radiological, laboratory, and social services must be provided by the hospital either on site or by contract.
7 AAC 12.210.  Medical staff.
(a) A hospital described in 
7 AAC 12.200
 must have a medical staff.  
(b) The medical staff shall organize and adopt, with the approval of the governing body, bylaws and rules which provide for   
 	(1) eligibility for medical staff membership, and recommending appointments to the governing body;   
 	(2) appointment of committees, including executive, credentials, medical records, tissue and transfusion, infection control, pharmacy and therapeutics, and utilization review committees, which shall keep written minutes of their meetings, including committee activities and recommendations; and   
 	(3) election of officers, including a chief of staff, and quarterly meetings, with minutes and records of attendance to be maintained for at least five years.   
(c) The medical staff shall   
 	(1) recommend annually to the governing body the appointment of and the medical and surgical privileges for each member of the medical staff;   
 	(2) ensure that a physician is available to respond to an emergency at all times;   
 	(3) place each patient under the care of a member of the medical staff;  
 	(4) require that an order of a practitioner, including a telephonic or other oral order, be reduced to writing and, within three days after the order is given, be dated, timed, and either initialed or signed by that practitioner or by another practitioner responsible for the care of the patient, even if the order did not originate with the other practitioner;   
 	(5) ensure that the use of an investigational drug is properly supervised by a member of the medical staff, that an informed consent form provided by the sponsoring company or agency is used, and that complete records on the drug, including protocol and side effects, are maintained;   
 	(6) establish procedures for circumstances in which consultation is required;   
 	(7) establish standards for care by residents, interns, and medical students in accordance with a residency training program approved by the Council on Education of the American Medical Association, the American Dental Association, or applicable specialty boards;   
 	(8) review at regular intervals clinical and scientific work, medical services, and maintenance of accurate medical records;   
 	(9) establish guidelines for referral to a pathologist of tissues removed by surgery; and   
 	(10) ensure that the medical history and physical examination for each patient are completed no more than 30 days before, or 24 hours after, admission; if completed within 30 days before admission, the medical staff must ensure that within 24 hours after admission   
 		(A) an updated history and examination are completed to determine any change in the patient's condition; and   
 		(B) the updated history and examination required under (A) of this paragraph are documented in the patient's medical record, with any change noted.
7 AAC 12.215.  Psychiatric hospitals.
(a) A hospital which is primarily engaged in providing to inpatients psychiatric services for the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness is a psychiatric hospital and must comply with the provisions of this section. 
(b) A psychiatric hospital must have the following minimum staff and on-site services, in addition to those required by 
7 AAC 12.205
: 
 	(1) a medical service, supervised by a physician; 
 	(2) a psychiatric service, supervised by a psychiatrist; 
 	(3) a psychological service, which includes one or more psychologists employed on a full-time, regular part-time, or consulting basis; 
 	(4) a social work service which includes one or more social workers employed on a full-time, part-time or consulting basis, under the direction of the medical staff; 
 	(5) a nursing service, under the direction of a registered nurse who has the following qualifications: 
 		(A) a master's degree in psychiatric nursing or a related field with one year of experience in nursing administration; or 
 		(B) a baccalaureate degree in nursing with 2 years of experience in psychiatric nursing and two years of experience in nursing administration; and 
 	(6) sufficient registered nursing personnel to give direct nursing care, and to plan, supervise, and coordinate care given by other mental health workers. 
(c) In addition to the services listed in (b) of this section, a psychiatric hospital must provide the following services, either directly or through a contract with outside providers: 
 	(1) psychological testing and counseling; 
 	(2) assessment, screening and diagnostic services; 
 	(3) individual psychotherapy; 
 	(4) group therapy; 
 	(5) family therapy; and 
 	(6) therapeutic occupational and activity programs. 
(d) A psychiatric hospital must have policies and procedures which require that it 
 	(1) have a transfer agreement with a general acute care hospital which includes provision for transfer of a patient's records upon transfer of the patient; 
 	(2) admit and discharge patients in accordance with 
AS 47.30.660
 - 47.30.915 if the hospital is a designated evaluation and stabilization facility or a designated evaluation and treatment facility; 
 	(3) provide for each patient a written treatment plan, developed with the patient's participation as far as practicable, which incorporates a comprehensive interdisciplinary approach based on the patient's medical, social, and psychiatric or psychological evaluations; 
 	(4) include as part of each patient's evaluation 
 		(A) a medical history; 
 		(B) a history of the current onset of illness, including the circumstances leading to admission; 
 		(C) a description of the patient's current mental status, including attitudes, behavior, intellectual and memory functioning, and orientation; 
 		(D) a descriptive inventory of the patient's assets; and 
 		(E) if the patient is a child or adolescent, a report on the patient's developmental as well as chronological age; 
 	(5) provide organized therapeutic activities with consideration for the interests and needs of the patients; 
 	(6) document in each patient's medical record the patient's attitude and response to treatment; 
 	(7) establish and implement guidelines for use of physical restraints and seclusion rooms which include the following requirements: 
 		(A) the location of a seclusion room which allows for direct supervision and observation by staff; 
 		(B) construction of a seclusion room which minimizes opportunity for concealment, escape, injury, or suicide, including locks and doors which open outwards; 
 		(C) recording in a patient's medical record the time the patient spent in seclusion or restraints; 
 		(D) visiting a patient who is in restraints or seclusion at least hourly, and providing the patient with adequate opportunity for exercise, access to bathroom facilities, and time out of restraints or seclusion; 
 		(E) limiting the use of restraints or seclusion to situations in which alternative means will not protect the patient or others from injury; and 
 		(F) when practicable, consultation with the patient regarding the patient's preference among available forms of adequate, medically advisable restraints, including medication; 
 	(8) establish and implement guidelines for administration of a drug when given in an unusually high dose or when given for a purpose other than that for which the drug is customarily used, and for circumstances under which electroconvulsive shock therapy may be administered; 
 	(9) provide that each treatment unit within the hospital keeps a confidential log of all referrals it initiates or receives; 
 	(10) provide an area in which a patient can meet with an outside community service provider and other hospital personnel who assist in fulfilling the goals and objectives of the treatment plan; 
 	(11) have a committee of the medical staff periodically evaluate the services provided and make appropriate recommendations to the medical staff and administration; and 
 	(12) establish and implement 
 		(A) controls for contraband; 
 		(B) security controls and management for potentially dangerous individuals, and for patients committed before October 1, 1982 under 
AS 12.45
 and after September 30, 1982 under 
AS 12.47
; 
 		(C) preventive measures for suicide or self-harm; 
 		(D) admission criteria for a psychiatric security unit; and 
 		(E) controls for storage and handling of police officers' weapons. 
(e) If a psychiatric hospital permits human subject research, it must 
 	(1) have written policies which describe the purpose and conduct of all research using the hospital's staff, patients, or services, and which require that 
 		(A) written agreements entered into by subjects do not include exculpatory language through which the subject waives any legal rights or which releases the hospital or its staff from liability for negligence; 
 		(B) when research findings are made public, the anonymity of individual patients is assured; and 
 		(C) when bodily integrity is violated, including by the use of electroconvulsive shock therapy and chemotherapy, supervision be provided by a physician; and 
 	(2) establish an interdisciplinary review committee comprised of both hospital staff members and other knowledgeable persons, for the purpose of reviewing research activities within the facility. 
(f) If a psychiatric hospital provides aftercare service, that service must include a written individualized treatment plan designed to establish continuing contact for the care of each patient and explain the risks, benefits, and side effects of medication programs to the patient. 
(g) A psychiatric hospital must provide for educational or training programs for all children of school age who are educable or trainable and who are expected to be patients for longer than one month. The programs must 
 	(1) conform to educational requirements established by law and be under direction of teachers certified to teach in Alaska; and 
 	(2) if provided by a public school system, include provisions for transportation of the patients to and from school and supervision of them during the transportation.
7 AAC 12.220.  Substance abuse hospitals.
(a) A hospital or unit of a hospital which is operated for the primary purpose of treatment of alcoholism or substance abuse through an integrated program of medical, psychological, and social evaluation and services, and in which the major portion of the required evaluation and services is furnished within the facility is a substance abuse hospital, and must comply with the provisions of this section.   
(b) A substance abuse hospital must have written policies, which are available to the public upon request, regarding admission criteria and treatment methods.   
(c) A substance abuse hospital must provide the following medical staff and services in addition to those required by 
7 AAC 12.205
:   
 	(1) continuous supervision during the detoxification process by a physician or by registered nurse under the direct supervision of a physician;   
 	(2) supervision by a physician or by a registered nurse under the direct supervision of a physician during the diagnosis and treatment of medical and psychiatric illnesses derived from or associated with substance abuse;   
 	(3) a social or psychological evaluation that includes the drinking or substance abuse history of the patient, and a determination of current mental and emotional state, cultural background, vocational history, familial relationships, educational background, socio-economic status, and a descriptive inventory of the patient's assets;   
 	(4) a medical evaluation;   
 	(5) an individualized treatment plan that is based upon the social or psychological and medical evaluations, and which   
 		(A) includes short- and long-term treatment goals, and estimated duration of treatment and a discharge plan; and   
 		(B) is, whenever practicable, developed with the participation of the patient;   
 	(6) organized therapeutic activities, developed with consideration for the interests and needs of the patients; and   
 	(7) an area in which patients can meet with outside community service providers and other program personnel who assist in fulfilling the goals and objectives of the treatment plan.   
(d) A committee of the medical staff shall periodically evaluate the services provided and make appropriate recommendations to the medical staff and administration.   
(e) A substance abuse hospital must have written policies regarding the use of restraints which include the following requirements:   
 	(1) recording in a patient's medical record the time the patient spent in restraints;   
 	(2) visiting a patient who is in restraints at least hourly, and providing the patient with adequate opportunity for exercise, access to bathroom facilities, and time out of restraints; and   
 	(3) limiting the use of restraints to situations in which alternative means will not protect the patient or others from injury.   
(f) A substance abuse hospital must routinely report on patient outreach services and recommendations to any individual, agency, or organization that has assisted in the identification or referral of a substance abuse patient.
7 AAC 12.225.  Rehabilitation hospitals.
(a) A rehabilitation hospital or unit of a hospital that is operated primarily for the purpose of assisting in the restoration of persons with physical disabilities, communication, language, or self-image disorders, through an integrated program of medical, psychological, social, and vocational evaluation and services, and in which the major portion of the evaluation and services is furnished within the facility, is a rehabilitation hospital and must comply with the provisions of this section.   
(b) A rehabilitation hospital must provide, in addition to services required in 
7 AAC 12.205
, physical therapy and occupational therapy services.   
(c) A physician who is certified by the American Board of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation must have responsibility for the general direction and supervision of the medical services provided and the coordination of all services provided.   
(d) An inpatient must be under the care of a member of the medical staff.   
(e) A patient at a rehabilitation hospital must receive a written evaluation, testing, and an individualized treatment plan, which includes short- and long-term goals, the estimated duration of treatment, and a discharge plan. When practicable, the individualized treatment plan must be developed with the participation of the patient.   
(f) Staff members who are involved in the care of a patient shall hold a patient care review conference as often as needed to coordinate rehabilitation and medical services provided to the patient. The treatment plan and goals must be reevaluated periodically, based on a reassessment of the patient's status within 7 to 14 calendar days of the initial assessment, and within 7 to 14 calendar days of each subsequent reassessment unless, in the treating physician's discretion, a subsequent reassessment is deferred beyond 14 calendar days. If the treating physician determines that a subsequent reassessment is to be deferred beyond 14 calendar days, the basis for that determination must be included in the patient's medical record.   
(g) Patient participation in a treatment plan, and any involvement by the patient's family in that plan, must be recorded in the patient's medical record.
Article 5
 Nursing Facilities
7 AAC 12.250.  Scope.
A facility that is not an acute care hospital and that provides nursing care and related medical services over a period of 24 hours each day to individuals admitted because of illness, disease, or physical infirmity is a nursing facility, and must comply with 
7 AAC 12.250
 - 
7 AAC 12.290
.
7 AAC 12.255.  Services required.
A nursing facility must provide nursing, pharmaceutical, either physical or occupational therapy, social work services, therapeutic recreational activities, dietetic, central supply, laundry, housekeeping, laboratory and radiological services.
7 AAC 12.256.  Admissions.
The nursing facility must have written policies and procedures to ensure admissions of only those individuals whose needs can be met by the nursing facility directly or in cooperation with community resources.
7 AAC 12.258.  Use of restraints or psychoactive drugs.
(a) In addition to the rights of patients specified in 
7 AAC 12.890
, residents of nursing facilities have the right to be free from physical restraints imposed or psychoactive drugs administered for purposes of discipline or convenience and that are not required to treat the resident's medical symptoms.   
(b) A resident's medical records must contain evidence of consultation with appropriate health professionals, such as occupational or physical therapists, in the use of less restrictive supportive devices before using physical restraints. The record must also contain evidence of an interdisciplinary team's identification of less restrictive approaches to be used before or in conjunction with the use of psychoactive drugs.   
(c) If, after a trial period of less restrictive measures, a nursing facility decides that a physical restraint or psychoactive drug would enable and promote greater functional or social independence, the nursing facility must explain the use of the restraint or psychoactive drug to the resident, before its use. If the resident has a legal representative, the explanation must also be given to the resident's legal representative, before its use. The explanation must include a description of the risks and benefits of the use of the restraint or drug.   
(d) Approval of the use of a restraint or psychoactive drug by a resident, or legal representative must precede its use, except in the case of a medical emergency in which there is a risk of harm to the resident or others. The approval, or the circumstances of the emergency, must be documented in the resident's medical records at the nursing facility.   
(e) A resident's medical records must contain evidence of an interdisciplinary team's periodic reassessment of the restraint or psychoactive drug to determine its effectiveness and appropriateness for continued use.   
(f) A nursing home must also meet the requirements at 42 C.F.R. 483.10, 483.12, 483.13, and 483.15, as amended July 1, 1991, regardless of whether the nursing home is certified to receive medicaid payments under 
7 AAC 43.170
.
7 AAC 12.260.  Medical director.
A medical director who is employed by or is a consultant to the nursing facility shall   
 	(1) place a resident under the care of a physician;   
 	(2) ensure that the use of an investigational drug is properly supervised by a member of the medical staff, that an informed consent form provided by the sponsoring company or agency is used, and that complete records on the drug, including protocol and side effects, are maintained; and   
 	(3) supervise the infection control and employee health programs.
7 AAC 12.265.  Physician services.
(a) Physicians shall review, recap, and sign orders for nursing facility residents at least once every 60 days.   
(b) A physician shall visit nursing facility residents and make a notation in each resident's medical record of the resident's status every 30 days for the first 90 days, and after that, every 60 days. If the condition of a resident warrants more frequent visits, a physician shall visit a resident as often as necessary.   
(c) A nursing facility shall ensure that a physician personally approves a recommendation in writing that an individual be admitted. Each resident shall remain under the care of a physician and shall be provided care that is consistent with the plan of care, comprehensive assessment, and needs of the resident.   
(d) A nursing facility shall ensure that   
 	(1) the medical care of each resident is supervised by a physician who assumes the principal obligation and responsibility to manage the resident's medical condition and who agrees to visit the resident as often as necessary to address the resident's medical care needs;   
 	(2) another physician will supervise the medical care of the resident when the resident's attending physician is unavailable; and   
 	(3) the medical director is informed of the results of all department surveys related to medical service deficiencies and is involved in resolving such problems.   
(e) A nursing facility shall ensure that the responsible physician   
 	(1) participates as a member of the interdisciplinary care team in the development and review of the resident's comprehensive care plan, with the understanding that the minimum level of physician participation in interdisciplinary development and review of the care plan must be a person-to-person conference with the registered nurse who has principal responsibility for development and implementation of the resident's care plan;   
 	(2) reviews the resident's total program of care, including medications and treatments, at each regularly scheduled visit;   
 	(3) prepares, authenticates, and dates progress notes at each visit;   
 	(4) authenticates and dates all orders; and   
 	(5) provides for scheduled visits after the initial visit; the responsible physician may alternate between in-person visits and visits by a physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse in accordance with (f) of this section.   
(f) A nursing facility may permit a physician to delegate tasks to a physician assistant who is acting within the scope of practice set out under 
AS 08.64
 and 
12 AAC 40
, or to an advanced practice registered nurse who is acting under the scope of practice set out under 
AS 08.68
 and 
12 AAC 44
. The nursing facility may not permit a physician to delegate a task if state or federal statutes or regulations prohibit the delegation, or if the nursing facility's own policies prohibit the delegation.
7 AAC 12.270.  Staff duties.
(a) The nursing facility staff shall encourage and assist residents to achieve and maintain their highest level of self-care and independence. A registered nurse, in conjunction with an interdisciplinary team, shall, within 14 days of admission of a resident, ensure completion of the comprehensive resident assessment instrument approved by the department. The assessment shall be reviewed by the nurse and interdisciplinary team no less frequently than quarterly and the plan of care revised as necessary. A reassessment shall be completed, by the nurse and interdisciplinary team, after any major permanent change in condition of the resident, but no less frequently than annually.   
(b) The nursing facility staff shall give residents the necessary care to prevent pressure ulcers, contractures, and deformities.   
(c) The nursing facility staff shall implement procedures to prevent and reduce incontinence of residents. These procedures must include   
 	(1) a written assessment by a registered nurse within two weeks after admission of an incontinent resident's ability to participate in a bowel or bladder training program;   
 	(2) an individualized bowel or bladder training plan for each resident, as appropriate; and   
 	(3) a monthly written summary of a resident's performance in the training program.   
(d) The nursing facility staff shall observe the hydration status of residents, and shall record deviations from the normal status and report the deviations to the charge nurse.
7 AAC 12.275.  Nursing and medical services.
(a) Except as otherwise specified in this section, a nursing facility must have a registered nurse on duty seven days a week on the day shift and five days a week on the evening shift. A licensed practical nurse must be on duty during all shifts when a registered nurse is not present. A nursing facility must have telephone access to at least one registered nurse at all times and must post the names and phone numbers of those registered nurses at each nurse's station.   
(b) A nursing facility with more than 60 occupied beds must have two registered nurses on duty during the day shift and one registered nurse on duty during other shifts.   
(c) A nursing facility that shares the same building as a hospital must have a registered nurse on duty in the nursing facility seven days a week on the day shift. On the evening and night shift, a licensed practical nurse may serve as charge nurse. However, an on-duty registered nurse from the hospital must be available to make rounds at the nursing facility and to be otherwise available as needed during the evening and night shifts when a licensed practical nurse is serving as charge nurse. A nursing facility with 14 or fewer occupied beds may use an on-duty registered nurse from the hospital to meet the night shift nursing requirement set out in this subsection.   
(d) A nursing facility must have a contract for diagnostic services with a laboratory and x-ray provider approved by the department.   
(e) A nursing facility must have a contract with a licensed dentist to provide consultation and necessary dental services to residents.   
(f) In addition to the requirements of this section, a governing body of a facility must provide resources and personnel as necessary to meet resident needs under 
7 AAC 12.630
(b)(6).
7 AAC 12.280.  Rehabilitation services.
(a) A nursing facility must provide a program of rehabilitative nursing care that assists each resident to achieve and maintain an optimal level of self-care and independence, as an integral part of the nursing service.  
(b) A nursing facility must provide physical, occupational, or speech rehabilitative services for a resident on a full-time, part-time, or consultant basis in accordance with the needs of the resident.   
(c) A therapist shall evaluate a resident in accordance with a physician's order. The therapist shall then establish an appropriate treatment program in coordination with medical, nursing, and other rehabilitative personnel.   
(d) The therapist shall report on the resident's progress to the attending physician within two weeks after initiation of rehabilitative services. After that report, the therapist shall reevaluate and note in the resident's medical record the resident's status and treatment plan every 30 days in the case of a resident receiving active rehabilitation and at least every 90 days for other residents.
7 AAC 12.285.  Activity program.
A nursing facility must provide an activity program that is available to all residents and encourages each resident to attain and maintain function at the highest practicable level. The program must address the intellectual, social, spiritual, creative, cultural, and physical needs, capabilities, and interests of each resident. Also, the program must encourage self-determination and well-being of the residents. If a physician finds a resident as medically able to participate in an activity program, that finding and any conditions of the resident's participation or contra-indications to that participation must be noted in the resident's record at the nursing facility. The activity program coordinator, with an interdisciplinary team, shall develop the resident's individual activity program. The activity program coordinator shall consult as necessary with an occupational or recreational therapist, unless the activity program coordinator meets the requirements of 42 C.F.R. 483.15(f)(2), revised as of October 1, 1991.
7 AAC 12.290.  Drug regimen review.
(a) A pharmacist must review each resident's prescribed drug regimen once every 30 days, make recommendations, note the possibilities or absence of problems irregularities, or clinically significant results or consequences with the prescribed drug regimen, and report potential problems and concerns to the physician and the director of nursing. Reports of potential problems and concerns shall be acted upon promptly. The nursing facility shall provide for more frequent drug regimen reviews by a pharmacist, if a resident's condition requires them.   
(b) A potential problem or concern reported under (a) of this section shall be reviewed in accordance with the risk management program under 
7 AAC 12.860
.
Article 6
 Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with an Intellectual Disability or Related Condition
7 AAC 12.300.  Scope.
A facility which operates primarily for the purpose of providing for the diagnosis, treatment or habilitation of persons who are intellectually disabled or developmentally disabled or have related conditions and which provides, in a protected residential setting, individualized ongoing evaluation and planning, supervision 24 hours a day, and coordination of health and habilitation services to help each individual reach maximum functioning capability is an intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition.
7 AAC 12.305.  Services required.
(a) An intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition is exempt from the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.600
 - 
7 AAC 12.990
, except for 
7 AAC 12.610
, 
7 AAC 12.620
, 
7 AAC 12.650
, 
7 AAC 12.760
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, 
7 AAC 12.900
 - 
7 AAC 12.990
.   
(b) An intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition must comply with 42 C.F.R. 442.250 - .254 and 42 C.F.R. 442.400 - .516 (effective 10/1/81).
Article 7
 Hospice Agencies
7 AAC 12.310.  Applicability and purpose of 
7 AAC 12.310 - 
7 AAC 12.349.
(a) Except as provided in (b) of this section, and unless the department waives applicability under (e) of this section, the provisions of 
7 AAC 12.310
 - 
7 AAC 12.349
 apply to a public or private entity conducting, maintaining, or operating a hospice program that provides hospice care   
 	(1) where a client lives or stays;   
 	(2) for the treatment of physical, emotional, and mental symptoms of terminal illness; and   
 	(3) that is based on hospice philosophy.   
(b) A volunteer hospice agency is subject to the provisions of   
 	(1) this section;   
 	(2) 
7 AAC 12.312
 (Licensure);   
 	(3) 
7 AAC 12.314
 (Inspections);   
 	(4) 
7 AAC 12.317
 (Scope of Service: Volunteer Hospice Agency);   
 	(5) 
7 AAC 12.318
 (Admission Criteria);   
 	(6) 
7 AAC 12.320
 (Advance Health Care Directives; Client Rights), except 
7 AAC 12.320
(b)(2)(I) and (L);   
 	(7) 
7 AAC 12.321
 (Abuse, Neglect, and Mistreatment);   
 	(8) 
7 AAC 12.325
 (Governing Body);   
 	(9) 
7 AAC 12.329
(b) and (c) (Administration), dealing with program director requirements;   
 	(10) 
7 AAC 12.336
 (Volunteer Services);   
 	(11) 
7 AAC 12.338
(a), (b), (c), and (k) (Hiring, Orientation, and Training);   
 	(12) 
7 AAC 12.339
 (Clinical and Administrative Records);   
 	(13) 
7 AAC 12.340
 (Employee Health);   
 	(14) 
7 AAC 12.341
 (Infection Control);   
 	(15) 
7 AAC 12.344
 (Contracts), except 
7 AAC 12.344
(4); and   
 	(16) 
7 AAC 12.349
 (Definitions).   
(c) In addition to the applicable provisions of 
7 AAC 12.310
 - 
7 AAC 12.349
, a hospice agency is subject to the applicable requirements described in 
7 AAC 12.600
(a) and (i).   
(d) Nothing in 
7 AAC 12.310
 - 
7 AAC 12.349
 relieves a hospice agency from compliance with 42 C.F.R. Part 418 for certification of a hospice agency to participate in the Medicare program. Licensure under this chapter does not qualify a hospice agency for participation in the Medicare program.   
(e) The department will waive the applicability of this chapter for a hospice agency that provides proof that it is participating in the rural demonstration project under P.L. 108-173, title IV, sec. 409 (Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003), and that it is in compliance with all applicable federal requirements for that project. A waiver issued under this subsection is void if the hospice agency ceases to participate in the project or ceases to be in compliance with applicable federal requirements.
7 AAC 12.312.  Licensure.
(a) Unless the department issues a waiver under 
7 AAC 12.310
(e), an individual or entity must obtain a license from the department under 
7 AAC 12.610
 and this section if the individual or entity seeks to   
 	(1) conduct, maintain, or operate a hospice agency;   
 	(2) participate in conducting, maintaining, or operating a hospice agency; or   
 	(3) represent that the individual or entity will provide hospice services.   
(b) A hospice agency may have more than one office that is either a branch office or a subunit of the parent agency. Each parent agency and each branch office or subunit must be assigned a distinctive name. For purposes of this section,   
 	(1) a branch office is located in the same service area as the parent agency and shares administration, supervision, and service with the parent agency on a daily basis; a branch office is not required to be separately licensed under this chapter; and   
 	(2) a subunit is located outside the service area where the parent agency is located, and does not share administration, supervision, and services with the parent agency on a daily basis; a subunit must be separately licensed under this chapter.   
(c) The completed application submitted to the department must contain   
 	(1) the applicant's name and address;   
 	(2) the location of the hospice agency and each of its subunits and branch offices;   
 	(3) identification of each person administratively responsible for the hospice program, including each person's name, address, telephone number, and affiliation, if any, with a licensed home health agency, hospital, or other health care facility;   
 	(4) identification of the proposed service area;   
 	(5) a list of hospice services directly provided by the hospice agency;  
 	(6) a list of any hospice services to be provided through a contractual agreement, including each provider's name, address, and telephone number; and   
 	(7) any additional information specified by the department as necessary to determine that the applicant is a hospice agency.   
(d) The department will grant, deny, suspend, or revoke a license in accordance with 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter.
7 AAC 12.314.  Inspections.
(a) The department will inspect each hospice agency, and may inspect each subunit or branch office of a hospice agency, after the initial application as specified in 
AS 47.32
 and 
7 AAC 12.610
, and subsequently as specified in 
AS 47.32
, 
7 AAC 10.9600
 - 
7 AAC 10.9620
, and 
7 AAC 12.925
.   
(b) The department will announce in advance any visit conducted in the home of a hospice client. The department will conduct the visit only with the client's permission. The department will consider the client's health in determining whether to visit the client in the home. A client's refusal to permit a home visit by the department does not affect the hospice agency's licensure.
7 AAC 12.316.  Scope of service: full-service hospice agency.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall provide   
 	(1) physician or advanced practice registered nurse services to provide directed medical care that meets the client's medical needs for palliative care and management of terminal illness;   
 	(2) nursing care and services provided by or under the supervision of a registered nurse;   
 	(3) social work services provided in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.335
;   
 	(4) spiritual and emotional counseling services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.337
 to the client, the client's family, and caregivers if these services are desired during the time the client is receiving hospice care;   
 	(5) bereavement counseling services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.337
 to the client's family and caregivers after the client's death;   
 	(6) volunteer services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.336
;   
 	(7) dietary counseling services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.337
;   
 	(8) pharmaceutical hospice services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.343
;   
 	(9) services related to the referral and transfer of clients for laboratory services that are provided by an organization other than the hospice; the referral and transfer services must be provided in accordance with a written plan that delineates available services and the procedures for referring and transferring clients;   
 	(10) services related to the transfer of specimens for laboratory services that are provided by an organization other than the hospice; the transfer services must be provided in accordance with a written plan that delineates available services and the procedures for transferring specimens; and  
 	(11) short-term respite care to the client's family for the relief of the client's daily care.   
(b) In addition to meeting the requirements of (a) of this section, the hospice agency shall evaluate each client's   
 	(1) access to emergency medical services, including ambulance service;   
 	(2) access to service, equipment, and supplies;   
 	(3) safety and emergency preparedness within the client's place of residence.   
(c) The hospice agency shall make nursing services, physician or advanced practice registered nurse services, and drugs and biologicals available on a 24-hour basis to the extent necessary to meet the client's needs for palliative care and management of terminal illness and related conditions.   
(d) The hospice agency shall arrange for short-term inpatient care if home care is not feasible for pain control, symptom management, and respite purposes. The agency shall ensure that any short-term inpatient care is provided in a licensed facility that is most appropriate to meet the client's needs.   
(e) The hospice agency shall offer hospice care in the least costly setting that can assure the quality of care and each type and amount of service that is necessary to meet the client's needs.   
(f) The hospice agency shall have a risk management program that includes procedures to investigate, analyze, and respond to client grievances related to client care.   
(g) The hospice agency shall develop and implement written policies and procedures consistent with this chapter that govern each service provided by the agency, including policies relating to confidentiality, training, and admissions. The policies and procedures must accurately describe the agency's goals, the methods by which the goals are achieved, and the mechanisms by which basic hospice care services are delivered. The agency shall review its policies and procedures at least annually. The program director shall document each review by dating and signing an attestation. The agency shall revise its policies and procedures if determined necessary by the agency or by the department to ensure that each policy and procedure is current and adequate for purposes of carrying out the agency's functions and maintaining consistency with this chapter.
7 AAC 12.317.  Scope of service: volunteer hospice agency.
(a) Subject to (b) of this section, a volunteer hospice agency shall provide each of, and only, the following services:   
 	(1) direct service volunteers;   
 	(2) spiritual and emotional support services to the client, the client's family, and caregivers if these services are desired during the time the client is receiving hospice care;   
 	(3) supervision, orientation, and training to direct service volunteers and other hospice staff;   
 	(4) bereavement counseling services to assist the client's family and caregivers in coping with grief experienced after the client's death; and   
 	(5) volunteer services in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.336
.   
(b) A volunteer hospice agency may provide short-term respite care to the client's family for the relief of the client's daily care.   
(c) A volunteer hospice agency shall investigate, analyze, and respond to client grievances related to client care.   
(d) A volunteer hospice agency shall ensure that each client has a plan of care approved by the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse, and by the program manager.   
(e) A volunteer hospice agency shall develop and implement written policies and procedures consistent with this chapter that govern each service provided by the agency, including policies relating to confidentiality, training, and admissions. The policies and procedures must accurately describe the agency's goals, the methods by which the goals are achieved, and the mechanisms by which basic hospice care services are delivered. The agency must review its policies and procedures at least annually. The program director shall document each review by dating and signing an attestation. The agency shall revise its policies and procedures if determined necessary by the agency or by the department to ensure that each policy and procedure is current and adequate for purposes of carrying out the agency's functions and maintaining consistency with this chapter.   
(f) Volunteer services in a volunteer hospice agency must be directed by a coordinator of volunteer services who shall   
 	(1) implement a direct service volunteer program;   
 	(2) coordinate the orientation, education, support, and supervision of direct service volunteers; and   
 	(3) coordinate the use of direct service volunteers with other hospice staff and community resources.
7 AAC 12.318.  Admission criteria.
(a) A hospice agency may accept a client for hospice care only if the hospice agency has a reasonable expectation that the hospice agency will adequately meet the client's needs. At the time an individual is accepted for care, or no later than two days after the day when care is initiated, the agency shall obtain written certification that the client has a terminal illness. If written certification cannot be obtained within two days, the agency shall obtain verbal certification within two days, and obtain written certification as follows:   
 	(1) for a volunteer hospice agency, within 21 days, from the attending physician;   
 	(2) for a full-service hospice agency, before billing for services, from the physician member of the interdisciplinary team or, if the team does not have a physician member, from the attending physician or another physician.   
(b) A full-service hospice agency shall obtain an updated certification of terminal illness at the end of each of the first two 90-day periods of care. If a client remains under the care of the agency for more than two 90-day periods, the agency shall reevaluate the client every 60 days afterwards with respect to the prognosis for life expectancy and shall consider whether transfer to another type of health care provider is indicated.   
(c) A hospice agency may not reject a client for hospice services based on race, color, national origin, age, sex, religion, or ethnicity.   
(d) A hospice agency may not terminate or reduce care provided to a client because of the client's inability to pay for the care.   
(e) In addition to meeting the applicable requirements of (a) - (d) of this section, a hospice agency shall consider the following factors before accepting a client for hospice services:   
 	(1) the adequacy and suitability of agency staff and resources to provide necessary services;   
 	(2) assessments of the client's medical, nursing, and social needs pertaining to the benefits derived from hospice care;   
 	(3) attitudes of the client and the client's family toward hospice care;   
 	(4) degree of client and family awareness of their respective rights and responsibilities;   
 	(5) the agency's ability to manage any medical emergency that is likely to occur, based on an assessment of known risk factors related to the client's condition;   
 	(6) the availability, ability, and willingness of others to participate in the client's care;   
 	(7) assurance that services can be effectively coordinated through liaison with organizations and individuals also providing care to the client.
7 AAC 12.319.  Plan of care.
(a) The interdisciplinary team designated under 
7 AAC 12.327
 by a full-service hospice agency shall develop and maintain a written plan of care for each client admitted to a hospice program. The agency shall ensure that care provided to a client is in accordance with the plan of care.   
(b) The hospice agency shall review each client's plan of care and document each review in the client's clinical record. The agency shall update the plan of care at intervals specified in the plan of care, or more frequently if determined necessary by the   
 	(1) medical director;   
 	(2) attending physician;   
 	(3) advanced practice registered nurse responsible for the client's care; or   
 	(4) interdisciplinary team.   
(c) Each plan of care must address client and family problems and needs, goals and objectives, the frequency and type of services, the level of care to be provided, agreed-upon outcomes, prescribed or required medical equipment, and evidence of client and family understanding, agreement, and involvement with the plan of care. The interdisciplinary team shall consider the need for at least the following services when developing the plan of care:   
 	(1) social work services;   
 	(2) nursing care;   
 	(3) counseling;   
 	(4) pastoral care;   
 	(5) volunteer visits to provide comfort, companionship, and respite;   
 	(6) bereavement services to be provided for at least one year after the death of the person who is terminally ill;   
 	(7) medical services.   
(d) The hospice agency shall designate a registered nurse to coordinate each client's overall plan of care.   
(e) The hospice agency shall promptly alert the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse of conditions that may require a change to a plan of care. The agency must obtain a verbal order from the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse, or from the medical director, before making any change to a client's medical treatment. The agency shall ensure that signed written orders are in the client's file within 21 days after the verbal order was taken.
7 AAC 12.320.  Advance health care directives; client rights.
(a) Before initiation of care or services, a hospice agency shall provide each client who is 18 years of age or older, or the client's legal representative, with forms and information regarding   
 	(1) the client's right to make health care decisions, including the right to accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment, and the right to execute an advance health care directive and durable health care power of attorney;   
 	(2) agency policies for implementing the client's right to make health care decisions;   
 	(3) living wills and do-not-resuscitate orders; and   
 	(4) persons who can provide additional information concerning advance health care directives and durable health care powers of attorney.   
(b) The governing body of the hospice agency shall protect and promote the rights of each hospice client, by assuring that   
 	(1) before services are provided, the client and the client's family are informed orally and in writing, in a language the client and the client's family understand, of the respective rights and obligations of the agency and the client; the agency shall document receipt of the notification of these rights and obligations by the client and the client's family;   
 	(2) each client receiving hospice services has the right to   
 		(A) courteous and respectful treatment of person and property;   
 		(B) be free from physical and mental abuse, neglect, or mistreatment;   
 		(C) care or services from employees or contractors properly trained to perform assigned tasks;   
 		(D) proper identification by name and title of each employee, contractor, or volunteer who provides hospice care to that client;   
 		(E) the following information in advance of care or services:   
 		 	(i) the care and services to be provided;   
 		 	(ii) any changes in the care or services to be provided;   
 		 	(iii) the frequency of proposed visits for care or services;   
 		 	(iv) the agency's expectation of the client's responsibilities to participate in the client's own care or services;   
 		 	(v) the name of the person supervising the care or services, and how to contact the agency;   
 		(F) confidentiality with regard to information about the client's health, social life, and activities in the client's home;   
 		(G) have the client's medical history released only as required by law or as authorized by the client or the client's legal representative;   
 		(H) access information in the client's medical record within two working days after submitting a written request to the agency;   
 		(I) be informed, orally and in writing, before a service is initiated, of the expected source of payment for the care or services provided by the agency, its employees, or its contractors; the requirements of this subparagraph do not apply to a volunteer hospice agency;   
 		(J) submit a grievance to the agency about the service or lack of service provided by the agency, its employees, its contractors, or its volunteers; the agency shall   
 		 	(i) investigate and respond to the client or person who submitted the grievance; and   
 		 	(ii) provide information to the client or person who submitted the grievance about how to contact the department to file a complaint;  
 		(K) be informed of the reason for impending discharge, transfer to another agency or facility, change in the level of care, ongoing care requirements, and other available services and options, if needed; and   
 		(L) participate in developing the client's plan of care and changes in care or treatment.
7 AAC 12.321.  Abuse, neglect, and mistreatment.
(a) A hospice agency shall   
 	(1) develop and implement written policies and procedures that prohibit abuse, neglect, and mistreatment of clients;   
 	(2) document alleged or suspected incidents of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment by an employee, volunteer, or contractor;   
 	(3) investigate alleged or suspected incidents of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment;   
 	(4) take any necessary action to remove the potential for further abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of a client or further misappropriation of a client's property;   
 	(5) document the result of the investigation and the corrective action taken within five days after the agency becomes aware of an incident described in (2) and (3) of this subsection;   
 	(6) submit the documentation prepared under (5) of this subsection to the department; and   
 	(7) assure that an employee, volunteer, or contractor does not obtain a client's power of attorney in violation of 
AS 13.26.358
.   
(b) A hospice agency is subject to the reporting requirements of 
AS 47.17.020
 and 
AS 47.24.010
.   
(c) A hospice agency shall contact the appropriate licensing authority to verify the disciplinary history of a potential employee or contractor who is required to hold a license to practice.
7 AAC 12.323.  Quality improvement plan.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall conduct an ongoing comprehensive self-assessment of the quality and appropriateness of care provided, including inpatient care and care provided under contract. The agency shall document the findings from its self-assessment and use them to correct identified problems and to revise hospice policies as necessary.   
(b) A full-service hospice agency shall establish a quality improvement plan for continually   
 	(1) monitoring and evaluating care provided;   
 	(2) identifying existing and potential issues; and   
 	(3) proposing and implementing improvements, and reevaluating care provided to determine if further improvement is possible or necessary.   
(c) The plan required under (b) of this section must include an analysis of   
 	(1) a quarterly clinical record review conducted as required under (f) of this section;   
 	(2) data derived from client assessments;   
 	(3) current clinical practice guidelines and professional practice standards applicable to clients in the home;   
 	(4) utilization of services;   
 	(5) measures of staff performance;   
 	(6) medical and other professional evaluation of the agency's caregiving system;   
 	(7) client and family satisfaction surveys; and   
 	(8) client complaints and the resolution process for those complaints.   
(d) The quality improvement program must include problem identification, corrective action, and subsequent monitoring of identified problems.   
(e) A full-service hospice agency shall review a client's clinical record at least every 30 days during which the client receives hospice services to determine the adequacy of the plan of care and appropriateness of continued care.   
(f) The quarterly clinical review required under (c)(1) of this section must be conducted by a multidisciplinary team of health professionals representing the services provided by the hospice agency. The review must consist of at least 10 percent of both active and closed records in that quarter to determine if applicable state laws and agency policies are properly followed.
7 AAC 12.325.  Governing body.
A hospice agency must have a governing body that assumes full legal responsibility for determining, implementing, and monitoring the policies that govern operation of the hospice. In addition to meeting the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.630
, the governing body shall   
 	(1) adopt, and revise as necessary, written bylaws that provide for the  
 		(A) election or appointment of officers and committees;   
 		(B) appointment of a local advisory board of individuals who reside in the service area, if the governing body is outside the state; and   
 		(C) establishment of the frequency of meetings;   
 	(2) establish a written mission statement that is consistent with hospice philosophy;   
 	(3) designate as program director an individual who meets the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.329
(b);   
 	(4) provide for systematic and effective communication between the community, governing body, and the program director of the hospice agency;   
 	(5) ensure that services provided are consistent with hospice philosophy and the requirements of this chapter; and   
 	(6) provide sufficient staff, supplies, and equipment to meet client needs.
7 AAC 12.326.  Professional advisory committee.
(a) The governing body of a full-service hospice agency shall appoint a professional advisory committee. The committee shall meet at least twice each year to advise and monitor the agency and shall report its findings in writing to the governing body. The committee must consist of   
 	(1) the program director;   
 	(2) a physician or advanced practice registered nurse;   
 	(3) a registered nurse;   
 	(4) a member of the public who resides in the agency's service area and who is not an owner or employee of the agency; and   
 	(5) at least one representative from one of the client care services provided by the agency.   
(b) At least once each year, the professional advisory committee shall conduct an overall program evaluation of the hospice agency and forward the results of that evaluation in writing to the governing body of the agency. The evaluation must include a review of   
 	(1) the agency's policies and procedures governing the scope of services offered, including acceptance and discharge of clients, medical supervision, plans of care, emergency care, the quality improvement program, and other relevant professional issues; and   
 	(2) the results of quality improvement activities conducted under 
7 AAC 12.323
, including clinical record reviews.   
(c) The professional advisory committee shall maintain each agency review as a separate administrative record.   
(d) The hospice agency shall document the professional advisory committee's involvement and communication with the governing body and the director of the hospice agency.
7 AAC 12.327.  Interdisciplinary team.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall designate an interdisciplinary team composed of individuals who provide or supervise the care and services offered by the agency. The interdisciplinary team must include at least a   
 	(1) physician;   
 	(2) registered nurse;   
 	(3) social worker described in 
7 AAC 12.335
 and 
7 AAC 12.700
;   
 	(4) pastoral or other spiritual counselor; and   
 	(5) volunteer coordinator or representative, if applicable.   
(b) If the agency provides one or more of the following services, the interdisciplinary team may also include a representative for that service:   
 	(1) physical therapy;   
 	(2) occupational therapy;   
 	(3) speech pathology;   
 	(4) home health services.   
(c) Nothing in this section precludes an agency from designating additional individuals to join the interdisciplinary team on a regular or as-needed basis.   
(d) The interdisciplinary team shall   
 	(1) participate in the development and maintenance of the plan of care for each client of the agency;   
 	(2) establish the policies governing the daily provision of hospice care and service;   
 	(3) schedule and attend interdisciplinary team conferences at a frequency that is based on client needs;   
 	(4) document conference findings and conclusions; and   
 	(5) review and make any necessary revision of each plan of care as required under 
7 AAC 12.319
.   
(e) Each member of the interdisciplinary team must be qualified, in terms of applicable education and training. If the individual's profession requires licensing or certification, that license or certification must be current. The agency must maintain a written record for each team member that includes verification of applicable education, training, license, and certification. The agency shall review these records annually to ensure the records are current and accurate.
7 AAC 12.329.  Administration.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall maintain administrative control over the services provided by the agency. The agency may not delegate administrative and supervisory functions to another agency, individual, or organization. The hospice agency shall describe in writing   
 	(1) the services provided by the agency;   
 	(2) the services provided by contract or another arrangement; and   
 	(3) the lines of authority for the delegation of responsibility to the client care level.   
(b) A full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall have a program director who is responsible for the daily management of the hospice program. The administrator of the agency may act as program director. The program director must have education, experience, and knowledge related to hospice care or related home health program care appropriate to the fulfillment of the responsibilities described in (c) and (d) of this section, as applicable. The agency shall develop written documentation setting out the responsibilities and authority of the program director. If the program director's position becomes vacant, the agency shall notify the department within 48 hours and provide, if available, the name of the replacement. The agency shall designate, in writing, a qualified individual to act in the capacity described in this subsection in the program director's absence.   
(c) The program director for a full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall  
 	(1) have authority to manage, and responsibility for managing, the business affairs and overall operation of the agency;   
 	(2) organize and direct the agency's ongoing functions;   
 	(3) implement and regularly evaluate policies and procedures for the management and operation of the hospice and evaluation of the overall program performance of the agency;   
 	(4) establish an organizational structure appropriate for directing the work of hospice employees, contractors, and volunteers in accordance with the agency's policies and procedures;   
 	(5) ensure that employees and ancillary staff receive orientation to their responsibilities and to the hospice program;   
 	(6) evaluate the functions and activities of employees and ancillary staff to assure conformance with applicable state and federal laws, agency policies and procedures, and applicable professional standards;   
 	(7) maintain a liaison between the governing body, any professional committee, and the employees and volunteers;   
 	(8) report to the governing body at least annually regarding agency operation;   
 	(9) ensure adequate continuing education and evaluation of staff; and   
 	(10) evaluate the recommendations of agency committees and consultants.  
(d) In addition to fulfilling the responsibilities described in (c) of this section, the program director for a full-service hospice agency shall   
 	(1) employ qualified personnel;   
 	(2) designate a nurse coordinator, and ensure the involvement of the nurse coordinator in decisions regarding employees and contract staff; and   
 	(3) ensure that the agency has an institutional budget plan that includes   
 		(A) an annual operating budget; and   
 		(B) a capital expenditure plan for the next three years.
7 AAC 12.331.  Professional management.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall have a physician or advanced practice registered nurse to serve as medical director and assume overall responsibility for each client's care program. The medical director shall be a member of and oversee the interdisciplinary team and the professional advisory committee. The medical director's duties include verifying that certification of terminal illness has been issued in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.318
(a)(2).   
(b) The program director shall designate a registered nurse to serve as the nurse coordinator. The nurse coordinator shall   
 	(1) supervise the agency's employees and contracted staff;   
 	(2) be available at all times for consultation during regular office hours or have a qualified designee if the nurse coordinator is on leave status or otherwise unavailable to the agency;   
 	(3) ensure that the agency has sufficient staff to meet patient needs;   
 	(4) be responsible for the development of nursing objectives, policies, and procedures consistent with hospice philosophy;   
 	(5) establish staffing and on-call schedules for nursing staff to ensure the availability of nursing services 24 hours a day, seven days a week; and   
 	(6) participate in the developing job descriptions and making employment decisions affecting hospice personnel who provide direct services.   
(c) The program director shall have authority over and responsibility for the  
 	(1) functions, activities, and evaluation of professional and ancillary staff to assure conformance with applicable state and federal laws, agency policies and procedures, and applicable professional standards; and   
 	(2) implementation of client care policies and procedures.   
(d) The agency shall provide nursing care and services by or under the supervision of a registered nurse. Nursing services must be directed and staffed to assure that each client's nursing needs are met. Hospice nursing services include   
 	(1) identifying the physical, psychosocial, and environmental needs of the client and the client's family;   
 	(2) conducting detailed and comprehensive assessments of each client upon admission and when significant changes occur in the client's condition;   
 	(3) addressing symptom management and comfort care needs;   
 	(4) implementing client teaching based on the client's needs consistent with agency policies and procedures, including demonstration, supervision, and evaluation;   
 	(5) documenting problems, appropriate goals, interventions, and client and family response to hospice care;   
 	(6) coordination of all client and family services;   
 	(7) supervision of other nursing personnel; and   
 	(8) preparation of clinical progress notes.
7 AAC 12.333.  Hospice home health aide services.
(a) A full-service hospice agency may provide home health aide services. If the agency provides home health aide services, those services must be provided   
 	(1) by a nurse aide with a current certification under 
AS 08.68.331
;   
 	(2) in accordance with the plan of care; and   
 	(3) in accordance with written instructions   
 		(A) prepared by a registered nurse providing services under 
7 AAC 12.331
; and   
 		(B) that specify each task to be completed during a home visit.   
(b) A nurse aide employed by the agency shall   
 	(1) follow the current plan of care;   
 	(2) perform simple procedures as an extension of therapy services;   
 	(3) provide personal care, including bathing, hair care, oral hygiene, skin care, and hand and foot care;   
 	(4) assist the client with ambulating and exercise;   
 	(5) assist with the client's meal preparation or feeding;   
 	(6) assist with client-administered nonprescription and prescription medications by handing the client the medication bottle, or the medication that was prepared under the supervision of a physician, a registered nurse, or an advanced practice registered nurse;   
 	(7) report changes in the client's condition and needs;   
 	(8) complete appropriate records; and   
 	(9) take and record vital signs.   
(c) A registered nurse providing services under 
7 AAC 12.331
 shall make a supervisory visit to each client's residence at least once every two weeks, either to observe and assist when the nurse aide is present, or to assess relationships and determine whether goals identified in the plan of care are being met. The registered nurse shall directly observe the in-home performance of each nurse aide at least once each month. The agency shall maintain sufficient documentation to demonstrate that a nurse aide is evaluated for competency in   
 	(1) communication;   
 	(2) observation, reporting, and documentation of the client care provided;   
 	(3) maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment;   
 	(4) provision of basic infection control procedures;   
 	(5) knowledge of basic nutrition and fluid intake, including food preparation techniques as appropriate;   
 	(6) reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration;   
 	(7) knowledge and observation of basic elements of body functioning and changes in body functioning that must be reported to the nurse aide's supervisor;   
 	(8) recognition of emergencies and knowledge of emergency procedures;   
 	(9) recognition of the physical, emotional, and developmental needs of, and ways to work with, clients served by the hospice, including respect for the client and the client's family, the client's privacy, and the client's property;   
 	(10) use of appropriate and safe techniques for the client's personal hygiene and grooming, including   
 		(A) a bed bath, sponge bath, tub bath, or shower bath;   
 		(B) sink, tub, or bed shampooing;   
 		(C) nail and skin care;   
 		(D) oral hygiene; and   
 		(E) toileting and elimination;   
 	(11) safe transfer techniques and ambulation;   
 	(12) normal range of motion and positioning; and   
 	(13) any other task that the agency may assign to the nurse aide.
7 AAC 12.334.  Physical therapy services.
A full-service hospice agency may provide physical therapy services. If the agency provides physical therapy services, the agency shall ensure that   
 	(1) the physical therapist and any physical therapist assistant meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.690
; and   
 	(2) in fulfilling supervisory duties required under 
7 AAC 12.690
, the physical therapist makes supervisory visits to the client's residence at least every two weeks to   
 		(A) evaluate the effectiveness of the services furnished by any physical therapy assistant; and   
 		(B) document the client's condition in the clinical record.
7 AAC 12.335.  Social work services.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall provide social work services required by 
7 AAC 12.316
(a)(3)
 	(1) under the direction of a physician or advanced practice registered nurse; and   
 	(2) by a social worker who   
 		(A) has a master's degree from a social work curriculum accredited by the Council on Social Work Education; and   
 		(B) is licensed as a clinical social worker or a master social worker under 
AS 08.95
.   
(b) The social worker must be available to the extent necessary to meet the needs of clients and their families for care that is reasonable and necessary for palliative care and management of terminal illness and related conditions.   
(c) In addition to performing the duties set out in 
7 AAC 12.700
(a)(1) - (6), the social worker shall provide ongoing psychosocial assessment of the family's capacity to cope with the client's terminal condition.
7 AAC 12.336.  Volunteer services.
(a) A hospice agency shall ensure that each volunteer provides care and services in accordance with the client's plan of care, and under the supervision of a designated hospice employee.   
(b) The agency shall develop and maintain policies and procedures that address the following with respect to volunteers in the program:   
 	(1) recruitment, retention, and dismissal;   
 	(2) screening;   
 	(3) orientation;   
 	(4) scope of function;   
 	(5) supervision;   
 	(6) ongoing training and support;   
 	(7) team conferencing;   
 	(8) records of volunteer activities;   
 	(9) bereavement services.   
(c) A volunteer is subject to the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.338
.   
(d) The hospice agency shall document active and ongoing efforts to recruit and retain volunteers.
7 AAC 12.337.  Counseling services.
(a) A full-service hospice agency shall develop an organized program to provide spiritual, emotional, bereavement, and other counseling services under the supervision of a qualified professional. Counseling services may include the provision of written material, social reorientation, and group support.   
(b) While the client is receiving hospice care, a full-service hospice agency shall make available spiritual, emotional, and other counseling services to the client and to the client's family as reasonable and necessary for palliative care and management of terminal illness and related conditions.   
(c) A full-service hospice agency shall make available bereavement counseling to assist the client's family and caregivers in coping with grief experienced after the client's death.   
(d) Any spiritual counseling, if desired by the client or the client's family, must be provided by a pastoral or spiritual counselor recognized by the governing body to be capable of providing spiritual, religious, and emotional support to the client and, as necessary, the client's family. The hospice agency may not request or require the client or the client's family to accept any value or belief system. The pastoral or spiritual counselor shall   
 	(1) regularly reassess the spiritual needs of the client and the client's family related to the changing status of the client's terminal condition;   
 	(2) support and assist the client, the client's family, or both;   
 	(3) develop and maintain contact, subject to the client's approval, with the client's identified religious representative; and   
 	(4) be a member of the interdisciplinary team.   
(e) A full-service hospice agency shall make available dietary counseling to the client, the client's family, or caregivers, as necessary, including counseling that will assist the family or caregiver in preparing food for the client. The agency shall ensure that dietary counseling is related to the client's needs rather than the personal needs of the family or caregiver. Dietary counseling shall be provided to clients who experience difficulty in meeting nutritional needs, including clients with dysphasia or other swallowing problems, problems with enteral feedings, or nutritional issues resulting from nausea, vomiting, or the dying process. Dietary counseling must be provided by a registered nurse or other person with relevant education or training. In this subsection, "enteral feeding" means the delivery of liquid feedings through a tube for individuals who have a functioning gastrointestinal tract, but are unable to orally ingest adequate nutrients to meet their metabolic and nutritional needs.
7 AAC 12.338.  Hiring, orientation, and training.
(a) A full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall require each volunteer and each direct service provider 
 	(1) to submit a written application; 
 	(2) to undergo a screening interview and an interview after training; 
 	(3) to receive the orientation and training required 
 		(A) under (b), (c), and (k) of this section, if a volunteer; and 
 		(B) under (b) - (k) of this section, if a direct service provider; 
 	(4) to submit a confidentiality statement, signed by the volunteer or direct service provider, in which the volunteer or direct service provider agrees to follow the program's policy regarding confidentiality; and 
 	(5) if the volunteer or direct service provider will transport individuals, to provide proof of 
 		(A) the motor vehicle liability insurance required under 
AS 28.22.019
; and 
 		(B) a valid driver's license issued by this state. 
(b) Before allowing a volunteer or direct service provider to provide a hospice service, a full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall ensure that the individual receives an orientation of at least four hours that is specific to hospice services. The agency shall document this orientation within the first week of employment. 
(c) A full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall develop policies and procedures that define the agenda of the orientation. The orientation must include at least the following subjects: 
 	(1) hospice philosophy; 
 	(2) personal death awareness; 
 	(3) communication skills; 
 	(4) personnel issues; 
 	(5) identification of hospice resource people; 
 	(6) stress management; 
 	(7) ethics and confidentiality; 
 	(8) stages of dying; 
 	(9) funeral arrangements. 
(d) A full-service hospice agency shall develop policies and procedures to ensure that each indirect service volunteer receives an orientation applicable to the duties the volunteer will perform. 
(e) A full-service hospice agency shall provide an educational program that offers a comprehensive overview of hospice philosophy and hospice care. The agency shall provide a minimum of 18 hours of education within a one-year period for each direct service provider delivering hospice care. The four hours of orientation training required under (b) of this section may be counted as part of the 18 hours required under this subsection. The educational program must include at least the following subjects: 
 	(1) hospice philosophy; 
 	(2) family dynamics; 
 	(3) pain and symptom management; 
 	(4) grief, loss, and transition; 
 	(5) psychological perspectives on death and dying; 
 	(6) spirituality; 
 	(7) communication skills; 
 	(8) volunteer roles; 
 	(9) multidisciplinary management. 
(f) Documentation of completion of the education program described in (e) of this section is transferable from one hospice agency to another. 
(g) A full-service hospice agency shall provide a program of continuing training directed at the maintenance of appropriate skill levels for hospice employees who provide services to clients and their families. 
(h) In addition to meeting the other requirements of this section, a full-service hospice agency shall conduct in each service area an orientation program for each new employee and annual in-service training for all employees, including volunteers and contractors, that covers the following topics: 
 	(1) agency policies and procedures; 
 	(2) job duties and responsibilities specific to each employee's job; 
 	(3) recognition of and responses to potential fire, emergency, and home safety hazards; 
 	(4) principles and techniques of infection control; the agency shall verify that its employees, contractors, and volunteers who provide client care, receive training on 
 		(A) universal precautions; in this subparagraph, "universal precautions" means the infectious control precautions that are recommended by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to be used to prevent the transmission of blood-borne germs such as human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis B virus; 
 		(B) the prevention, transmission, and treatment of tuberculosis, in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.650
(a)(1); 
 	(5) ethics and confidentiality; 
 	(6) applicable state and federal law and the agency's policies and procedures; 
 	(7) functions of other employed health personnel, including functions of hospice volunteers; 
 	(8) coordination of services within the agency and with community services. 
(i) A full-service hospice agency shall require cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training every two years for each employee who works directly with clients. 
(j) To meet the training requirements of this section, a full-service hospice agency shall provide a nurse aide with at least 12 hours of in-service training each calendar year combined with six hours of additional training during the first year of employment. The 12 hours of in-service training must be based on the training needs identified through supervisory visits and the needs of the client being served by the agency. The agency shall provide training for all care duties not included in the basic competency skills identified in 
7 AAC 12.333
(c). 
(k) A full-service or volunteer hospice agency shall provide or arrange for a volunteer training and continuing education program that provides, at a minimum, 
 	(1) orientation and training for new volunteers to acquaint them with the philosophy, organization, services, practices and goals of the hospice program; 
 	(2) the psychosocial and psychological aspects of terminal disease; 
 	(3) family dynamics and psychosocial issues surrounding terminal disease, death, and bereavement; 
 	(4) communication skills; and 
 	(5) initial and continued training needs specific to the duties, responsibilities and competency of each volunteer.
7 AAC 12.339.  Clinical and administrative records.
(a) A hospice agency shall establish and maintain a clinical record for each client receiving care and services. The record must provide for identification, security, confidentiality, control, retrieval, and preservation of client care data and information. Each clinical record must be a comprehensive compilation of information. The agency shall ensure that entries are   
 	(1) made for all services provided, whether furnished directly by or indirectly through the agency; and   
 	(2) made and signed by the staff providing the services.   
(b) Each client's clinical record must contain   
 	(1) appropriate identifying information;   
 	(2) assessments by appropriate personnel;   
 	(3) the client's plan of care;   
 	(4) the name of the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse;   
 	(5) signed and dated progress notes;   
 	(6) copies of summary reports sent to the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse;   
 	(7) a signed client release or consent form;   
 	(8) documentation of informed consent regarding the initiation of care and treatment and changes in the plan of care;   
 	(9) evidence that the client was informed regarding advance health care directives and client rights as described in 
7 AAC 12.320
;   
 	(10) copies of any transfer information sent with the client; and   
 	(11) a discharge summary, if appropriate.   
(c) Clinical progress notes must be written or dictated on the day that care or service is provided. The clinical progress notes must be incorporated into the client's clinical record within seven days.   
(d) A hospice agency shall have written policies and procedures to ensure that clinical records are   
 	(1) legibly written in ink or typed, and suitable for photocopying;   
 	(2) readily available to authorized personnel during operating hours of the agency;   
 	(3) protected from damage;   
 	(4) if electronic, protected by security software designed to ensure confidentiality;   
 	(5) retained for at least five years after the date of discharge, or in the case of a minor, three years after the client turns 21 years of age; agency policies and procedures must provide for record retention even if the agency discontinues operation;   
 	(6) disposed of using a method that will prevent retrieval and subsequent use of information; and   
 	(7) transferred with the client if the client transfers to another agency or health facility; the transferred record may be   
 		(A) a copy; or   
 		(B) an abstract and a summary report.   
(e) In addition to maintaining clinical records as described in this section, a hospice agency shall maintain administrative records that, at a minimum, include   
 	(1) minutes of governing body meetings;   
 	(2) all receipts and expenditures; and   
 	(3) training provided to paid staff and volunteers.
7 AAC 12.340.  Employee health.
A hospice agency shall have an employee health program that meets the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.650
. The agency shall require contractors and volunteers performing patient care or services for the agency to meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.650
.
7 AAC 12.341.  Infection control.
A hospice agency shall develop and implement written policies and procedures applicable to all agency staff that   
 	(1) minimize the risk of transmitting infection in all client care or services; and   
 	(2) provide for the safe handling and disposal of pathological, biohazardous, or infectious materials.
7 AAC 12.342.  Central supply; medical supplies and appliances.
(a) A full-service hospice agency is subject to this section unless the agency provides inpatient care on agency premises. An agency that provides inpatient care on agency premises shall comply with 
7 AAC 12.730
. A hospice agency that is subject to this section shall maintain a separate area for the   
 	(1) storage of sterile supplies and materials to protect those supplies and materials from contamination; and   
 	(2) cleaning, disinfection, or sterilizing, as appropriate under (b) of this section.   
(b) A hospice agency that is subject to this section shall develop and implement policies and procedures for   
 	(1) identifying supplies or equipment that, because of the intended use, must be cleaned, disinfected, or sterilized to decrease the risk of infection;   
 	(2) cleaning, disinfecting, sterilizing, and storage of nondisposable supplies and equipment to prevent contamination and the transmission of infection through use;   
 	(3) identifying potentially infectious materials that must be treated before disposal;   
 	(4) handling, packaging, and disposing of materials and sharp instruments contaminated by pathological, biohazardous, or infectious waste; and  
 	(5) maintaining a system for identifying and preventing usage of supplies with questionable sterility.   
(c) A hospice agency that is subject to this section shall provide medical supplies and appliances, including drugs and biologicals, as needed for palliative care and management of terminal illness. The agency shall have a written policy to recommend to the client, the client's family, or the caregiver the destruction, or disposal, as appropriate, of drugs, including scheduled drugs, chemicals, and biologicals that are used in the care of the client and maintained in a client's home if the drugs, chemicals, or biologicals have expired or are no longer needed by the client.
7 AAC 12.343.  Pharmaceutical hospice services.
(a) A full-service hospice agency is subject to this section unless the agency provides inpatient care on agency premises. An agency that provides inpatient care on agency premises shall comply with 
7 AAC 12.680
. A hospice agency that is subject to this section shall develop policies and procedures for the dispensing and administering of drugs and biologicals related to hospice treatment. Whether drugs and biologicals are obtained from a pharmacist or are stocked by the agency, the agency is responsible for ensuring that   
 	(1) drugs and biologicals are provided as needed for its clients for palliative care and the management of the terminal illness and related conditions; and   
 	(2) pharmaceutical services are provided in accordance with the client's plan of care, the agency's written policies and procedures, and applicable federal, state, and municipal statutes, ordinances, and regulations, including 
AS 08.68
, 
AS 08.80
, 
12 AAC 44
, and 
12 AAC 52
.   
(b) Only a physician or advanced practice registered nurse may order medications for the client. If the medication order is verbal,   
 	(1) the physician or advanced practice registered nurse may give the order only to a licensed nurse, pharmacist, or another physician or advanced practice registered nurse; and   
 	(2) the individual receiving the order must record and sign it immediately and have the prescribing physician or advanced practice registered nurse sign it within 21 days after the date of signature.   
(c) Medication may be administered only by a licensed nurse or, if the attending physician or advanced practice registered nurse has approved, by   
 	(1) the client;   
 	(2) a member of the client's family; or   
 	(3) a caregiver designated by the client.
7 AAC 12.344.  Contracts.
If a hospice agency contracts with another entity or agent to perform services for or provide resources to the agency, the agency shall monitor and control those services and resources. In addition to meeting the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.910
, the agency shall ensure that the contract   
 	(1) provides that clients are accepted for care or services only by the contracting agency;   
 	(2) requires the contractor to conform to all applicable agency policies, including personnel qualifications;   
 	(3) delineates the role of the hospice and of the contractor in the admission process, patient and family assessment, and the interdisciplinary team care conferences;   
 	(4) specifies the contractor's responsibility for participating in developing a plan of care; this paragraph does not apply to a volunteer hospice agency;   
 	(5) specifies that the contracted services may be provided only with the express authorization of the agency;   
 	(6) specifies the manner in which the agency will control, coordinate, and evaluate the care or services; and   
 	(7) identifies the procedures for payment for services furnished under the contract.
7 AAC 12.349.  Definitions.
In 
7 AAC 12.310
 - 
7 AAC 12.349
, unless the context requires otherwise,   
 	(1) "advance health care directive" means an instruction described in 
AS 13.52
 regarding the provision or nonprovision of health care;   
 	(2) "agency" means hospice agency;   
 	(3) "bereavement counseling" means emotional support services to assist a client's family or caregivers in coping with the client's death;   
 	(4) "client" means an individual with a terminal illness who has been accepted to receive hospice care;   
 	(5) "direct service" means service provided directly to a client receiving services in a hospice program;   
 	(6) "employee" means a paid staff person designated by the hospice agency to provide services to a client or the client's family under the direction of the plan of care for the client; "employee" includes an individual providing services to the client or the client's family under contract with the hospice agency;   
 	(7) "family" means   
 		(A) individuals related to a client by blood, marriage, or court decree; and   
 		(B) one or more individuals who have a significant personal relationship with a client and who have been designated, by mutual agreement between each individual and the client, as members of the client's family;   
 	(8) "full-service hospice agency" means a hospice agency that provides, and charges a fee for, the services described in 
7 AAC 12.316
;   
 	(9) "hospice home health aide" means an individual employed by or under contract with a hospice agency to provide hospice services as specified in 
7 AAC 12.333
;   
 	(10) "hospice philosophy" has the meaning given the term in the definition of "hospice services" in 
AS 47.32.900
;   
 	(11) "hospice services" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;   
 	(12) "medical director" means a physician or advanced practice registered nurse who oversees the medical components of hospice services and the interdisciplinary team;   
 	(13) "palliative care" means care provided for the reduction or abatement of pain, for physical symptoms, and for psychosocial or spiritual needs of an individual with a terminal illness; "palliative care" includes physician or advanced practice registered nurse services, skilled nursing care, social work services, volunteer services, and bereavement services; "palliative care" does not include treatment provided solely to cure a medical condition or disease or to artificially prolong life; however, treatment that is curative in nature may be provided if the purpose of the treatment is to reduce or abate pain or other symptoms, or to slow the progression or reduce the psychological effects of the terminal illness;   
 	(14) "plan of care" means   
 		(A) for a hospice agency other than a volunteer hospice agency, a written service delivery plan developed and maintained under 
7 AAC 12.319
 by the interdisciplinary team, in conjunction with the client, to reflect the client's changing care needs; and   
 		(B) for a volunteer hospice agency, the plan described in 
7 AAC 12.317
(d);   
 	(15) "program director" means the individual designated by the governing body of a hospice agency to be responsible for the daily operations of the agency;   
 	(16) "respite care" means care provided to an individual with a terminal illness to provide temporary relief to a primary caregiver;   
 	(17) "service area" means the geographical area in which a hospice agency regularly provides services to individuals;   
 	(18) "short-term inpatient care" means care provided to an individual with a terminal illness, in an inpatient setting, for brief periods of time for the purpose of pain control or acute or chronic symptom management;   
 	(19) "terminal illness" means an illness for which an individual has a life expectancy of less than six months if the illness runs its normal course, and for which the individual is no longer receiving curative treatment;   
 	(20) "volunteer" means a trained individual who works for a hospice agency without compensation;   
 	(21) "volunteer hospice agency" means a hospice agency that provides all direct client care at no charge.
Article 8
 Ambulatory Surgical Centers
7 AAC 12.350.  Scope.
A facility that is not a part of a hospital, nor part of a physician's general medical practice, and that operates primarily for the purpose of providing surgical services to patients who do not require hospitalization is an ambulatory surgical center and must comply with 
7 AAC 12.350
 - 
7 AAC 12.370
.
7 AAC 12.352.  Medical staff.
The ambulatory surgical center medical staff shall
 	(1) recommend to the governing body the appointment of and the medical and surgical privileges for each member of the medical staff annually, or if approved by the governing body, biennially;
 	(2) ensure that each patient is under the care of a credentialed medical practitioner;
 	(3) require that an order relating to patient care from a credentialed medical practitioner acting within the scope of the practitioner's license, including a telephonic or other oral order, be transcribed by date and time and be initialed or signed by the credentialed medical practitioner or by another credentialed medical practitioner responsible for the care of the patient, even if the order did not originate with the other practitioner;
 	(4) establish procedures for circumstances in which consultation is required;
 	(5) establish standards of care by residents, interns, and medical students in accordance with a residency training program approved by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association, the American Dental Association, or an applicable specialty board;
 	(6) review at regular intervals, but not less than once every three months, clinical and scientific work, medical services, and maintenance of accurate medical records;
 	(7) establish guidelines for referral to a pathologist of anatomical parts, foreign objects, and tissues removed by surgery;
 	(8) establish procedures for supervision of advanced practice registered nurses and physician assistants; and
 	(9) ensure that patient admission, assessment, and discharge meet the requirements of 42 C.F.R. 416.52, revised November 29, 2019 and adopted by reference.
7 AAC 12.355.  Services required.
An ambulatory surgical facility shall provide the following services. 
 	(1) surgical services that meet the following requirements:
 		(A) a registered nurse with knowledge and experience in surgical techniques and procedures shall have supervisory responsibility for the surgical suite and, in cooperation with the surgical committee of the medical staff and the infection control committee, establish policies and procedures for the surgical service;
 		(B) a list of which surgical privileges are held by individual members of the medical staff must be available in the surgical suite for reference by the supervisor;
 		(C) before a surgical procedure begins, either the surgeon or the person responsible for administering anesthesia, and the surgical supervisor or the supervisor's designee shall
 		 	(i) confirm the patient's identity and the site and side of the body to be operated upon; and
 		 	(ii) except in the event of an emergency, ensure that the patient's medical record contains pre-surgical assessments that meet the requirements of 42 C.F.R. 416.52(a), adopted by reference in 
7 AAC 12.352
(9), and a signed statement of informed consent for the surgery;
 		(D) a daily register of operations must be maintained;
 		(E) as determined by medical staff under 
7 AAC 12.352
(7), anatomical parts, foreign objects, and tissues that have been removed by surgery shall be referred to a pathologist designated by the ambulatory surgical center; a report of the pathologist's findings must be filed in the patient's medical record;
 		(F) a registered nurse shall be present as a circulating nurse during each surgical procedure;
 	(2) anesthesia services that meet the following requirements:
 		(A) a physician shall have overall responsibility for supervision of anesthesia services;
 		(B) anesthesia care shall be provided by only a physician or dentist with anesthesia privileges or a certified registered nurse anesthetist;
 		(C) an anesthesia staff member shall be available or on call at all times when a patient is present in the facility;
 		(D) a patient's medical record must include the following documentation:
 		 	(i) visits to a patient by an anesthesiologist or anesthetist before and after the anesthesia is administered; any individual described in (B) of this paragraph and qualified to administer anesthesia may complete and document the post-anesthesia evaluation of a patient;
 		 	(ii) the chosen anesthetic agent;
 		 	(iii) the amount and duration of anesthetic agents, other drugs, intravenous fluids, and blood or blood products administered;
 		 	(iv) a description of actions during the surgical procedure and presence or absence of complications; and
 		 	(v) a record of events during induction, maintenance, and emergence from anesthesia;
 		(E) rules for the safe use of flammable anesthetic agents must comply with 42 C.F.R. 416.44(c), revised July 5, 2016 and adopted by reference;
 	(3) laboratory, radiological, medical record, and laundry services.
7 AAC 12.360.  Emergency equipment,  treatment, and requirements.
(a) The following emergency equipment must be available in the operating rooms: 
 	(1) an emergency call system; 
 	(2) equipment for the delivery of oxygen; 
 	(3) mechanical ventilatory assistance equipment, including airways in a range of sizes, and a manual breathing bag; 
 	(4) a cardiac defibrillator; 
 	(5) cardiac monitoring equipment; 
 	(6) a tracheotomy set; 
 	(7) laryngoscopes and endotracheal tubes in a range of sizes; 
 	(8) suction equipment; and 
 	(9) emergency drugs and supplies determined by the medical staff. 
(b) A registered nurse must be on-site to provide emergency treatment at all times when a  patient is present in the facility.
(c) An ambulatory surgical center shall provide written notice of the center's operation and population served to the nearest general acute care hospitals in the event that transfer of a patient who requires medical or emergency care beyond the scope of the ability or license of the center is needed.
7 AAC 12.365.  Obstetrical care.
An ambulatory surgical center that provides labor and delivery services shall provide a separate and individual suite for those services.
7 AAC 12.370.  Abortions.
An ambulatory surgical facility may perform a voluntary termination of pregnancy if   
 	(1) it receives written authorization from a competent patient, or, if a patient is not competent, from the patient's legal representative;   
 	(2) it has evidence of a verified pregnancy test;   
 	(3) the pregnancy has not exceeded the first trimester of approximately three months or less;   
 	(4) it has conducted a Papanicolaou (PAP) test, a blood-type and Rh factor test and an antibody screening, except that the PAP test is not required if the patient has had one within the past six months; and   
 	(5) it performs a cross-match of Rh immune globulin and provides Rh immune globulin therapy for Rh negative patients.
Article 9
 Subacute Mental Health Facilities
7 AAC 12.375.  Scope.
A subacute mental health facility that operates as a crisis stabilization center or a crisis residential center is subject to the provisions of 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
. A center may be a crisis stabilization center, crisis residential center, or collocated center.
7 AAC 12.377.  Organizational structure.
(a) A crisis stabilization center or a crisis residential center shall develop, implement, and maintain a statement that clearly defines the center's purpose. The statement must include
 	(1) the center's program philosophy;
 	(2) the center's program goals and objectives;
 	(3) the patient demographics that the center accepts for care, including age, sex, and other characteristics;
 	(4) the geographic area that the center serves;
 	(5) the types of services that the center provides;
 	(6) the center's admission criteria;
 	(7) the needs, problems, situations, or patterns that the center's program addresses; and
 	(8) the center's organizational chart that clearly delineates the lines of authority.
(b) A center shall provide supervision and services that
 	(1) conform to the department's regulations;
 	(2) meet the needs of each patient as identified and addressed in the patient's treatment plan;
 	(3) protect each patient's rights; and
 	(4) promote each patient's social, physical, and mental well-being.
(c) A center shall maintain information or documentation related to compliance with 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
 and shall make that information or documentation available to the department upon request.
(d) A center shall have an identifiable governing body with the responsibility for and authority over the center's policies and operations. The center shall maintain documentation that lists the governing body's
 	(1) membership, including each member's contact information;
 	(2) length of a term of membership;
 	(3) officers, if any; and
 	(4) terms of office for each officer.
(e) A center's governing body shall
 	(1) hold a formal meeting at least twice each year and maintain written minutes of each formal meeting;
 	(2) maintain bylaws or other written policies that specify the frequency of meetings and quorum requirements;
 	(3) ensure that the center complies with applicable federal, state, local, and municipal laws and regulations;
 	(4) review and approve the center's annual budget and maintain funding and fiscal resources to ensure the provision of services; 
 	(5) designate a qualified person to act as the center's administrator; the governing body shall
 		(A) delegate authority to the administrator to manage the center;
 		(B) delegate authority to the administrator to select a clinical director; and
 		(C) evaluate the performance of the administrator at least annually;
 	(6) consult with the center's administrator and clinical director to develop, and review annually, written policies that include
 		(A) the center's philosophy and goals;
 		(B) services the center currently provides;
 		(C) personnel practices and job descriptions; and
 		(D) fiscal management practices;
 	(7) meet with designated department representatives, as required;
 	(8) inform the department, or the department's designee, before initiating a substantial change to the services the center provides;
 	(9) ensure that criminal background checks are conducted as required in 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
;
 	(10) ensure that the center maintains a complete record of
 		(A) the center's authority to operate under state law;
 		(B) each lease, contract, or purchase-of-service agreement to which the center is a party;
 		(C) the center's insurance policies;
 		(D) the center's annual operating budget;
 		(E) the center's master list of community resources;
 		(F) ownership of the center;
 		(G) accidents, incidents, abuse, or neglect allegations; and
 		(H) the center's daily census log of patients who receive services; and
 	(11) ensure that each contract or service agreement to which the center is a party
 		(A) is in writing;
 		(B) is reviewed at least annually;
 		(C) is fulfilled according to the contract's or service agreement's terms;
 		(D) states that the center is responsible for all services that are provided under the terms of the contract or service agreement; 
 		(E) states that each service that is provided under a contract or service agreement
 		 	(i) meets the requirements of applicable laws and regulations; and
 		 	(ii) is provided only by qualified providers and personnel; and
 		(F) specifies the party responsible for screening, orienting, training, developing, and supervising personnel who provide direct care services under the agreement.
7 AAC 12.379.  Licensure, compliance, and enforcement.
(a) An individual or entity shall obtain a license from the department under 
AS 47.32
 and this section before the individual or entity may operate a center, unless the individual or entity is exempt under (b) of this section. The department may bring an action to enjoin a center's operation if the individual or entity fails to obtain a license as required under 
AS 47.32
 and 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
.
(b) A facility is exempt from the requirement to obtain a license under 
AS 47.32
 and 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
 if the facility is owned and operated by
 	(1) the United States Indian Health Service; or
 	(2) a tribal organization as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304(l) under a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 5385 (Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act) and P.L.106-260 (Tribal Self-Governance Amendments of 2000 (Title V)).
(c) An applicant shall submit a complete application for an initial license, biennial license renewal, or modification of a previously approved license application on a form provided by the department. The department will return an incomplete application to the applicant for completion and resubmission. An application
 	(1) for an initial license or biennial license renewal
 		(A) must include
 		 	(i) applicable documents and information required under 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
;
 		 	(ii) the name and address of each owner, officer, director, partner, member, or principal of the business organization that owns the entity for which licensure is sought; and
 		 	(iii) the fees established under 
7 AAC 12.615
; and
 		(B) is subject to an on-site review and inspection conducted by the department; after the inspection is complete, the department will
 		 	(i) approve an application that meets the applicable requirements;
 		 	(ii) deny an application that does not meet the applicable requirements; or
 		 	(iii) extend the application period for not more than 90 days if the center is temporarily unable to comply with the applicable requirements but is taking appropriate steps to achieve compliance;
 	(2) for modification of information included in a previously approved application
 		(A) must be submitted to the department not fewer than 90 days before the proposed modification date; and
 		(B) may be subject to an on-site inspection conducted by the department; and
 	(3) may be denied if
 		(A) the application contains false or fraudulent information;
 		(B) the applicant fails or refuses to provide required documents or information; or
 		(C) the center or a center's employee
 		 	(i) permitted, aided, or abetted a criminal act related to center operations covered by the license;
 		 	(ii) engaged in conduct or practices detrimental to the health, welfare, or safety of patients or employees; or
 		 	(iii) participated in, offered to participate in, or implied an offer to participate in a rebate, kickback, or fee-splitting arrangement or a substantially similar arrangement.
(d) The department may approve, deny, or place a condition on a license. If the department
 	(1) denies an application or places a condition on a license, the department will notify the applicant in writing by certified mail; an applicant may appeal a department decision by requesting a hearing on a form provided by the department or in a format approved by the department not more than 15 days after the applicant receives the department's notification; or
 	(2) approves an application, the center shall post
 		(A) the copy of the approved license in a conspicuous place on the premises where the copy may be readily viewed by patients, staff, and the public; and
 		(B) notice of a department-issued variance near the approved license, if applicable.
(e) A center may not transfer a license without department approval.
(f) A center shall permit the department to access the center to conduct a standard inspection, investigate a complaint, or investigate a suspected violation of licensing requirements. The center shall allow the department unobstructed and immediate access to
 	(1) inspect and duplicate the facility's records, personnel records, and patient medical records;
 	(2) observe care practices;
 	(3) inspect and photograph the building or the premises; and
 	(4) interview a staff member, contractor, volunteer, patient, patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, family member, or parent of a minor patient.
(g) If a center denies the department access to the center, the department may petition the court for an order to permit access or may take other action, including revoking the center's license.
(h) After inspecting a center, the department will issue a report under 
AS 47.32.120
. If the department issues an inspection report that shows a violation, the center shall submit a plan of correction to the department. For each violation identified in the report, the center's plan of correction must include
 	(1) a description of the center's planned corrective action for patients who were affected by the deficient practice;
 	(2) the method the center will use to identify other patients who may have been affected by the deficient practice;
 	(3) the measures or systemic changes the center will implement to prevent the deficient practice from recurring;
 	(4) the center's plan to monitor the corrective action and evaluate the action's efficacy to prevent the deficient practice from recurring;
 	(5) the center's completion date for each corrective action;
 	(6) the center's designee who will oversee the correction of each violation; and
 	(7) the signature of the center's administrator, or the signature of a person responsible for the center's operation and plan of correction.
(i) After the department reviews a center's plan of correction, the department will either approve the plan or determine that the plan is insufficient. If the department determines that the plan is insufficient, the department may
 	(1) request additional information regarding corrective action described in the center's plan;
 	(2) require the center to amend the plan as the department specifies; or
 	(3) require the center to comply with a directed plan of correction developed under (j) of this section.
(j) If the department develops a directed plan of correction for a center to cure a violation, the department will notify the center in writing. In its notice, the department will include a copy of the directed plan of correction and a description of enforcement action the department may take. A directed plan of correction must include
 	(1) a description of each violation;
 	(2) a description of each action the center shall take to correct each violation; and
 	(3) the deadline for the center to cure the violation.
(k) A center that is licensed under 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
 may request a waiver of a biennial inspection by the department under 
AS 47.32.030
(a)(3)(D) and 47.32.060 if the center holds a current accreditation from a nationally recognized organization that meets the standards of 
AS 47.32
 and 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
, as determined by the department. The center shall submit the waiver request on a form provided by the department for each licensing period during which the accrediting organization inspected the center. For each waiver request,
 	(1) the center shall include a copy of the accrediting organization's most recent inspection report, and a plan of correction and proof of corrective action if applicable; and
 	(2) the department
 		(A) will waive the biennial inspection for the remainder of the licensing period in which the accrediting organization conducted an inspection if the center
 		 	(i) passed that inspection; or
 		 	(ii) corrected the deficiency in the accrediting organization's inspection report; or
 		(B) may revoke an approved inspection waiver if the center fails to fulfill a correction plan under this section.
(l) A center shall keep a paper or electronic copy of each inspection document for not fewer than three years from the inspection date and shall make each document available to any interested person upon request.
(m) The department may respond to a complaint or take other enforcement action, including enforcement action against a center that retaliates against a person who files a complaint.
(n) A center has the right to appeal an enforcement action not more than 15 days after the center receives notice of the department's action. The center shall submit a written appeal request to the department, in accordance with the notification deadline requirements in 
AS 47.32.200
.
(o) The general variance procedures set out in 
7 AAC 10.9500
 - 
7 AAC 10.9535
 apply to a center described in 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
.
7 AAC 12.380.  Environmental requirements.
(a) A center shall conduct
 	(1) daily environment-of-care rounds to assess the physical environment to ensure the safety and well-being of each patient admitted to the center; and
 	(2) an annual ligature risk assessment to mitigate ligature risk.
(b) A center shall prohibit smoking inside the center.
(c) A center's interior
 	(1) must have an environment that protects the health, safety, and security of each patient that includes
 		(A) routinely cleaning the entire center;
 		(B) adequate lighting;
 		(C) performing routine facility maintenance to keep the center in good and safe order according to applicable manufacturer recommendations, including equipment, fixtures, plumbing, electrical, and furnishings;
 		(D) adequate heating, ventilation, and cooling systems that operate safely and ensure a comfortable environment; and
 		(E) electric receptacles in patient care areas that are tamper-resistant or equipped with ground fault circuit interrupters;
 	(2) must have a sufficient number of bathrooms to meet the needs of the center's patients and allow for a patient's individual privacy in accordance with the patient's plan of care; each bathroom must contain
 		(A) a wash basin with hot and cold running water, a soap dispenser, and paper towels or an automatic dryer;
 		(B) a toilet with a toilet seat and an adequate toilet paper supply;
 		(C) plumbing, piping, and ductwork that is
 		 	(i) recessed or enclosed; and
 		 	(ii) inaccessible to patients;
 		(D) a shatterproof mirror that is secured to the walls at a convenient height; and
 		(E) other amenities necessary to meet each patient's basic hygienic needs;
 	(3) must have a sufficient number of bathtubs or showers, but not less than one bathtub or shower, to meet each patient's bathing needs, with hot and cold water and slip-proof surfaces; 
 	(4) must have separate and secure storage areas that are inaccessible to patients and for
 		(A) patient possessions that may not be accessed during a patient's stay;
 		(B) records and other confidential information; and
 		(C) hazardous, flammable, or combustible materials;
 	(5) must have designated space for administrative functions that is separate from patient common areas;
 	(6) must have designated space that allows clinical staff to
 		(A) complete tasks while remaining accessible to patients; and
 		(B) observe and monitor patient activity within the unit;
 	(7) must have designated private space that is exclusive of patient common areas, for
 		(A) physical examinations;
 		(B) counseling sessions; and
 		(C) other staff and patient discussions;
 	(8) must have at least one designated space with reduced visual and auditory stimulus that
 		(A) is used for de-escalation;
 		(B) is used for not more than one patient at a time; and
 		(C) allows for continual visual observation and monitoring of the patient either directly or by video and audio;
 	(9) may have a seclusion room if the seclusion room
 		(A) is used for not more than one patient at a time;
 		(B) allows for continual visual observation and monitoring of the patient either directly or by video and audio;
 		(C) has a monolithic ceiling;
 		(D) has flat walls that are free of protrusions and angles;
 		(E) does not contain electrical receptacles; and
 		(F) is a dedicated space;
 	(10) must have windows that are fabricated with laminated safety glass or protected by polycarbonate, laminate, or safety screens;
 	(11) must have door hinges that are designed to minimize ligature risk;
 	(12) must have door handles that point downward in the latched or unlatched position, except for specifically designed anti-ligature hardware;
 	(13) must have tamper-resistant fasteners on windows and doors; and
 	(14) must have visual and complete physical separation between adult and pediatric patient care areas, sleeping areas, and patient common areas, if the center provides services to both populations; if temporary partitions are used, the partitions must
 		(A) extend from floor to wall;
 		(B) be sound dampening;
 		(C) be lockable; and
 		(D) be consistent with exit egress requirements.
(d) A center shall comply with applicable federal, state, and local building, fire, and safety laws, regulations, and codes. If a conflict or inconsistency arises in law, regulation, or code, the center shall comply with the most restrictive provision. The center shall maintain building, fire, and safety compliance records for department inspection.
(e) A crisis stabilization center shall have a space for chairs or recliners in an observation area. The space may be a permanent configuration or rearranged based on the needs of the patients in the center. The observation area
 	(1) must have at least three feet of space between each chair or recliner;
 	(2) must have at least six feet of clearance at the foot of each chair or recliner; and
 	(3) may position the head of each chair or recliner at a wall.
(f) A crisis residential center shall
 	(1) have sleeping areas that are exclusive of observation rooms, examination rooms, meeting rooms, and other common areas;
 	(2) have a designated space that is exclusive of sleeping areas and common space to allow private and small group discussions and counseling sessions between individual patients and staff;
 	(3) ensure that each patient closet, bedroom, or bathroom that is equipped with a door has a lock that can be readily opened by staff from both sides;
 	(4) have a designated space for dining, visitation, leisure, and recreational activities;
 	(5) have access to laundry facilities or contract with a laundry service to launder a patient's clothing;
 	(6) have access to laundry facilities or contract with a laundry service to launder linens; and
 	(7) have a clean linen storage area and a separate area to store soiled linen until the linen may be laundered.
(g) A center's exterior space, including any exterior structure, must
 	(1) have adequate lighting;
 	(2) be maintained to prevent elopement, injury, suicide, or the introduction of contraband;
 	(3) be in good repair and free from any reasonably foreseeable hazard to health or safety;
 	(4) include a perimeter security system designed to monitor and control visitor access and patient egress; and
 	(5) keep trash collection receptacles and incinerators in an area that is not accessible to patients.
(h) A center shall ensure that an unsafe area is adequately separated from a patient area by a barrier such as a fence, wall, or natural barrier. An "unsafe area" includes
 	(1) a steep grade;
 	(2) an open pit;
 	(3) a high voltage booster; or
 	(4) a high-speed road.
(i) If a center has an outdoor area for patient use, the center shall secure the area to prevent 
 	(1) unauthorized patient access to the outdoor area; and
 	(2) patient elopement.
(j) A center shall have appropriate exterior signage that is visible to the public and clearly
 	(1) indicates that the center provides only behavioral health services;
 	(2) indicates that the center is not a hospital or emergency department; and
 	(3) identifies the center's legal or operational name.
7 AAC 12.381.  Infection control.
(a) A center shall appoint an infection control committee that is responsible for the maintenance and supervision of an infection control program. The committee members shall be representatives from the center's
 	(1) medical staff;
 	(2) administrative staff;
 	(3) nursing staff; and
 	(4) other service staff.
(b) A center's infection control committee shall establish and maintain the infection control program's
 	(1) written procedures to diagnose, report, investigate, review, and maintain infection records for patients and personnel, including the procedures set out in the federal Centers for Disease Control guidelines;
 	(2) written procedures for the center's departments that incorporate principles or practices to reduce the risk of infection in patient care services and patient care areas;
 	(3) system for reporting communicable diseases in accordance with 
7 AAC 27
 and other applicable federal and state regulations;
 	(4) written isolation and body substance isolation techniques for known or suspected communicable diseases or infections; and
 	(5) written policies for disposal of infectious waste in accordance with
 		(A) universal precautions; and
 		(B) other standardized best practices.
(c) An infection control committee shall meet at least semiannually and shall retain written minutes of all meetings for not fewer than three years.
(d) An infection control committee shall approve proposed disinfectant-detergent formulas and policies and procedures for the disinfectant-detergent's use.
(e) A center shall maintain adequate cleaning supplies, cleaning equipment, and staff to maintain a safe and sanitary environment.
(f) A center that is owned and operated by a parent health care organization may rely on the parent organization's infection control committee to meet the requirements of this section if the parent health care organization's infection control committee
 	(1) meets the requirements of this section; and
 	(2) consists of at least one medical staff member and one nursing staff member from the center.
7 AAC 12.382.  Dietary services.
(a) A center shall
 	(1) meet each patient's hydration needs; and
 	(2) store, prepare, distribute, and serve all food in a safe and sanitary condition as set out under 
18 AAC 31
 (Alaska Food Code) and applicable local food codes.
(b) A crisis residential center shall
 	(1) directly employ or contract with a dietitian licensed under 
AS 08.38
 to provide dietary services and approve the center's menus;
 	(2) provide food
 		(A) that is of sufficient quantity and quality to meet each patient's nutritional needs, dietary restrictions, and religious restrictions;
 		(B) in accordance with the orders of the patient's admitting provider;
 		(C) in accordance with 
18 AAC 31
; and
 		(D) that is served in a manner that maintains the patient's safety and security and is free of identified contraband; and
 	(3) provide at least three meals and an evening snack each day.
(c) A center may provide meal preparation and meal service on site or under contract with a food management company. If the center provides meal preparation or meal service under contract, the center shall ensure that the food service company
 	(1) is compliant with the requirements of this section; and
 	(2) possesses required state and local food licenses and permits.
7 AAC 12.383.  Staffing.
(a) A center shall comply with the provisions of 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
 (barrier crimes and conditions; background checks).
(b) A center's professional staff shall
 	(1) be accountable to the governing body;
 	(2) be responsible for the quality of clinical care provided each patient;
 	(3) adhere to ethical conduct standards and professional practices;
 	(4) comply with policies and procedures approved by the governing body; and
 	(5) maintain an organizational chart that identifies staff names and titles and hierarchy of oversight.
(c) A center's direct care staff shall
 	(1) have the appropriate qualifications to provide the services required by each patient's treatment plan;
 	(2) practice only within the scope of the staff member's license, certification, or training; and
 	(3) have current certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
(d) A center's staff shall include
 	(1) a center administrator who
 		(A) meets one of the following qualifications:
 		 	(i) holds a master's degree in a human services or healthcare field and has at least one year of qualifying experience in the behavioral health field;
 		 	(ii) holds a bachelor's degree in a human services or healthcare field and has at least two years of qualifying experience in the behavioral health field;
 		(B) is a full-time employee;
 		(C) is responsible for
 		 	(i) supervising and managing the center's daily operations;
 		 	(ii) reviewing each accident and incident report and identifying hazards to the clinical director;
 		 	(iii) participating in the development of new programs and modifications; and
 		 	(iv) working collaboratively with the clinical director regarding clinical decisions;
 		(D) may function as the sole administrator for a center that operates as a collocated center; and
 		(E) may not have other job responsibilities that would impede the ability to administer and operate the center;
 	(2) a clinical director who
 		(A) has expertise in managing medical and psychiatric conditions and who is a physician or physician assistant who holds an active license under 
AS 08.64
 or an advanced practice registered nurse who is licensed under 
AS 08.68
;
 		(B) is responsible for developing and implementing policies and procedures and overseeing clinical services and treatment;
 		(C) may function as the sole clinical director for a center that operates as a collocated center; and
 		(D) may function as the licensed prescriber, if all requirements of (3) of this subsection are met;
 	(3) a licensed prescriber who
 		(A) is responsible for managing the psychiatric and medical care of each patient;
 		(B) is licensed
 		 	(i) under 
AS 08.64
 as a physician or physician assistant; or
 		 	(ii) under 
AS 08.68
 as an advanced practice registered nurse and has an unrestricted license and prescriptive authority;
 		(C) has expertise in managing medical and psychiatric conditions; and
 		(D) may function as the sole licensed prescriber for a collocated center;
 	(4) a sufficient number of registered nurses to meet the needs of each patient, and who
 		(A) shall be on duty during the center's hours of operation; a facility that operates as a collocated center shall have at least
 		 	(i) one registered nurse on duty if the combined census is 16 patients or fewer; or
 		 	(ii) two registered nurses on duty, one for each center, if the combined census is more than 16 patients;
 		(B) are currently licensed under 
AS 08.68
;
 		(C) have at least one year of qualifying experience providing direct care to patients with a behavioral health or medical diagnosis; and
 		(D) are responsible for providing nursing services in accordance with accepted standards of practice, the center's policies, and individual patient treatment plans;
 	(5) a sufficient number of mental health professionals to meet the needs of each patient, and who
 		(A) have at least one year of qualifying experience in providing direct care to patients with behavioral health diagnoses;
 		(B) are responsible for
 		 	(i) providing direct care to each patient and may serve as primary counselor to a specified caseload;
 		 	(ii) serving as resource persons for other professionals and unlicensed staff; and
 		 	(iii) attending and participating in individual treatment planning and discharge planning; and
 		(C) are responsible for participating in the development of plans of care; and
 	(6) a sufficient number of non-licensed or non-certified staff to meet the needs of each patient, and who
 		(A) are at least 18 years old;
 		(B) have a high school diploma or general educational development (GED);
 		(C) provide services in accordance with center policies, documented education, training and experience, and the patient plans of care; and
 		(D) shall be supervised by nursing or mental health professional staff.
(e) During a center's hours of operation,
 	(1) the center's administrator or qualified designee shall be on site or on call;
 	(2) the center's clinical director or qualified designee shall be on site or on call;
 	(3) the facility shall assign a registered nurse to assume responsibility for oversight of nursing staff and nursing services;
 	(4) a licensed prescriber shall be on site or on call;
 	(5) qualified direct care staff members shall be on site and available to ensure each patient's health, safety, and well-being; and
 	(6) staff coverage shall be maintained to ensure each patient's continual safety, protection, direct care, and supervision in consideration of
 		(A) patient acuity;
 		(B) patient ages and needs;
 		(C) the time of day; and
 		(D) the center's size, location, and physical environment.
(f) Except as allowed under (d)(4)(A) of this section, a direct care staff member who is on duty to meet a center's minimum staffing requirement may not provide or be available to provide services to a collocated center or collocated facility. In this subsection, "on duty" means present in the center and available to perform the duties of the staff member's position.
(g) A center shall develop an orientation and annual in-service training program that includes the following requirements:
 	(1) for all center staff,
 		(A) an orientation that includes job-specific training, before the staff member may work in the center;
 		(B) in-service training, based on the center's and patients' needs;
 		(C) as part of both orientation and in-service training, information about
 		 	(i) confidentiality;
 		 	(ii) patient rights;
 		 	(iii) the grievance process;
 		 	(iv) fire and disaster plans;
 		 	(v) basic emergency care for accidents and emergencies;
 		 	(vi) the center's mission, vision, and core values;
 		 	(vii) personnel policies and procedures;
 		 	(viii) abuse, neglect, and misappropriation prevention, identification, and reporting;
 		 	(ix) duties and responsibilities of each employee;
 		 	(x) standards of conduct required by the center, including professional boundaries;
 		 	(xi) maintaining a clean, healthy, and a safe environment, and safe and therapeutic milieu; and
 		 	(xii) infectious diseases and universal precautions; and
 		(D) orientation and in-service training that is provided by individuals who are qualified by education, training, and experience;
 	(2) for all direct care staff, crisis services and intervention training upon hire and at least annually that includes
 		(A) an overview of mental health and substance abuse, including an overview of behavioral health settings and levels of care;
 		(B) detecting signs of illness or dysfunction that warrant medical or nursing intervention;
 		(C) side effects and adverse reactions commonly caused by psychotropic medications;
 		(D) basic skills required to meet the health needs and challenges of each patient;
 		(E) components of a crisis cycle;
 		(F) recognizing the signs of anxiety and escalating behavior;
 		(G) crisis intervention and the use of non-physical intervention skills, including
 		 	(i) de-escalation;
 		 	(ii) mediation conflict resolution;
 		 	(iii) active listening; and
 		 	(iv) verbal and observational methods to ensure patient safety;
 		(H) therapeutic communication;
 		(I) the disease process and signs and symptoms of mental or emotional disorders;
 		(J) levels of observation;
 		(K) regulations, standards, and policies related to seclusion and restraint, including the safe application of physical and mechanical restraints and physical assessment of the restrained patient; and
 		(L) exercises for direct care staff to demonstrate techniques to manage the delivery of patient care services; each direct care staff member shall demonstrate competency in patient care techniques before the staff member may provide services to patients; and
 	(3) for all nursing staff, in-service training that focuses on psychopharmacology and psychotropic medications, including side effects and possible adverse reactions.
(h) A center shall develop a performance evaluation process and complete an annual performance evaluation for each employee.
(i) A center shall maintain a personnel file for each staff member. A personnel file must contain
 	(1) the employee's employment application and resume, including contact information and employment history;
 	(2) reference letters from former employers or personal references or written documentation based on telephone contact with references;
 	(3) evidence of current professional credentials, licenses, or certifications, as applicable;
 	(4) annual performance evaluations, including evidence of competency in performing assigned tasks;
 	(5) personnel actions, other appropriate materials, reports, and notes relating to the individual's employment;
 	(6) the employee's start and termination dates;
 	(7) proof of required orientation and in-service training completion;
 	(8) results of criminal background checks, if required;
 	(9) job description and performance expectations; and
 	(10) a written confidentiality agreement, signed by the employee.
7 AAC 12.384.  Admission, transfer, and discharge.
(a) A center may not refuse admission to an individual based on race, national origin, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or disability.
(b) The center shall
 	(1) admit an individual only if the individual's needs may be met by the center, based on physical and mental health screening;
 	(2) develop and implement policies and procedures for diverting an individual when the center is at capacity that include notifying emergency medical services, police, or other entities, as necessary;
 	(3) establish admission requirements that include
 		(A) the availability of appropriate physical accommodations;
 		(B) voluntary admission or legal authority for involuntary admission; and
 		(C) written documentation of consent to treatment under voluntary admission, if applicable; and
 	(4) request documentation of the patient's condition from the referring emergency department, agency, facility, or other source before admission, if applicable.
(c) A center shall conduct an initial evaluation of each patient who presents for treatment. The evaluation must
 	(1) be performed by a mental health professional;
 	(2) be initiated not more than 30 minutes and completed not later than three hours after the patient's arrival;
 	(3) be used to determine the patient's eligibility for and the appropriateness of services provided by the crisis stabilization center; and
 	(4) include
 		(A) an assessment of whether the patient is an imminent danger to self or others;
 		(B) an assessment of risk for imminent withdrawal;
 		(C) a breath analysis and urine drug screen, in accordance with the crisis stabilization center's policies and procedures;
 		(D) a check of vital signs;
 		(E) a clinical assessment of the patient's current condition to determine the patient's primary medical problems and whether acceptance to the crisis stabilization center or transfer to another medical provider is more appropriate for the patient's condition or circumstances; and
 		(F) a brief patient medical history.
(d) A center shall develop, implement, and adhere to patient discharge and transfer policies and procedures that comply with state and federal laws.
(e) A center shall have a written discharge plan for each patient to provide continuity of services that includes
 	(1) the patient's transfer or referral to outside resources, continuing care appointments, and crisis intervention assistance;
 	(2) documented attempts to involve the patient and, subject to 
7 AAC 12.391
(b)(13), the patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, family member, or parent of a minor patient, in the discharge planning process;
 	(3) the patient's goals and activities to sustain recovery;
 	(4) the patient's signature, or the patient's parent or guardian, if applicable; a copy of the discharge plan must be provided to the individual who signed the plan;
 	(5) the name, dosage, and frequency of the patient's medications ordered at the time of discharge;
 	(6) the patient's prescriptions for medications ordered at time of discharge; and
 	(7) the disposition of the patient's possessions, funds, and medications, if applicable.
(f) A crisis residential center shall discharge a patient
 	(1) when the patient's treatment goals are achieved as documented in the patient's treatment plan;
 	(2) when the patient's condition or treatment needs are not consistent with the services the center is authorized or able to provide; or
 	(3) according to the crisis residential center's written discharge criteria.
(g) A crisis residential center shall complete a discharge summary not more than 30 days after a patient is discharged that includes
 	(1) the patient's presenting needs and issues identified when the patient was admitted;
 	(2) the services the patient received;
 	(3) the crisis residential center's assessment of the patient's progress towards goals;
 	(4) the circumstances of the patient's discharge; and
 	(5) recommended continuity of care following patient discharge, including supporting documentation, and referral information.
(h) A center that transfers a patient shall
 	(1) request and receive approval from the receiving facility before the patient may be transferred;
 	(2) notify the receiving facility if the patient has significant medical or psychiatric conditions or complications and provide other necessary information for the patient's care before the patient arrives; and
 	(3) transfer all requested patient information and documents to the receiving facility.
7 AAC 12.385.  Required services.
(a) A center shall have access to laboratory services to meet each patient's needs, including the ability to
 	(1) conduct a breath analysis for immediate determination of blood alcohol level;
 	(2) conduct a dipstick urine drug screen; and
 	(3) obtain rapid laboratory results.
(b) A center shall
 	(1) maintain a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certificate of waiver under 42 C.F.R. 493.35 - 493.37 or a registration certificate under 42 C.F.R. 493.43 - 493.45 for the provision of on-site laboratory services or on-site point of care testing; or
 	(2) provide for laboratory services through a contracted laboratory that has a Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certification.
(c) A center shall have access to pharmaceutical services to meet each patient's needs.
(d) A center shall ensure that on-site or contracted pharmaceutical services are compliant with 
AS 08.80
 and 
12 AAC 52
.
(e) A center shall develop, implement, and comply with written policies and procedures in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and ordinances that govern
 	(1) safe administration and handling of prescription and non-prescription medication;
 	(2) medication storage, recording, and control;
 	(3) disposal of discontinued or expired medication and containers with worn, illegible, or missing labels;
 	(4) prescription medication use, including
 		(A) medical monitoring when medication is administered to identify specific target symptoms;
 		(B) a procedure to provide information on each medication's anticipated results, potential benefits and side effects, and potential adverse reactions that may result from not taking the medication as prescribed, to center staff and the patient, patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, or parent of a minor patient, if applicable;
 		(C) involving a patient, and if applicable, patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, or parent of a minor patient in decisions concerning medication; and
 		(D) training staff to recognize a medication's potential side effects;
 	(5) abbreviations and symbols approved for use in the center;
 	(6) recording and reporting medication errors and adverse drug reactions to
 		(A) the patient's physician or prescriber; and
 		(B) the clinical director;
 	(7) reporting and resolving inventory discrepancies or the misuse or abuse of controlled substances, in accordance with federal and state law;
 	(8) emergency pharmaceutical services; and
 	(9) the emergent or urgent procurement, including the acceptable time frame for procurement, of medication when the required medication is not available on site.
(f) A center shall
 	(1) allow medication to be administered only by a licensed health care professional whose scope of practice includes the administration of medication;
 	(2) allow medication to be administered only according to a licensed prescriber's order;
 	(3) keep medication in a locked, illuminated, and clean cabinet, closet, or room that is
 		(A) maintained at a controlled temperature according to the manufacturer's recommendation; and
 		(B) accessible only to a licensed health care professional authorized to administer medications;
 	(4) store medication that requires refrigeration in a refrigerator or refrigeration unit separate from refrigerators or refrigeration units that store food, beverages, or laboratory specimens;
 	(5) administer medication only upon the written or verbal order of a licensed prescriber;
 	(6) require the licensed prescriber to sign a verbal order not more than 24 hours after making the verbal order;
 	(7) immediately report, and document the patient's medical record, medication errors, adverse drug reactions, or interactions with other medication, food, or beverages taken by the patient to
 		(A) the patient's physician or licensed prescriber;
 		(B) the supervising pharmacist; and
 		(C) the clinical director;
 	(8) keep controlled substances in a locked cabinet or compartment separate from other medications;
 	(9) maintain current and accurate records on the receipt and disposition of controlled substances;
 	(10) reconcile controlled substances at least twice a day; reconciliation shall be completed by
 		(A) a licensed health care professional authorized to administer controlled substances; or
 		(B) an automated system that provides reconciliation;
 	(11) report discrepancies in controlled substance inventories to the center's administrator, clinical director, and supervising pharmacist in accordance with federal and state laws;
 	(12) develop and utilize a process to obtain medication within a time frame that meets each patient's needs; and
 	(13) develop and utilize a process to provide pharmaceutical services 24 hours a day.
7 AAC 12.387.  Treatment services.
(a) A center shall
 	(1) operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week; and
 	(2) provide
 		(A) individual crisis assessment;
 		(B) psychiatric evaluation services;
 		(C) nursing services;
 		(D) therapeutic interventions to decrease and stabilize a presenting crisis;
 		(E) identification of a crisis's contributing factors;
 		(F) withdrawal symptom stabilization, if applicable;
 		(G) 24-hour observation;
 		(H) advocacy, networking, and support to provide linkage and referral to appropriate community-based services; and
 		(I) medication services, including prescription, administration, and management.
(b) A crisis residential center shall develop patient-specific centered treatment plans.
(c) A crisis stabilization center shall operate with an adequate number of chairs or recliners.
(d) A crisis residential center shall operate with not more than 16 licensed beds.
(e) A center that administers psychotropic medication shall administer the medication in accordance with 
AS 47.30
.
7 AAC 12.389.  Restraint and seclusion.
(a) A center may use restraint or seclusion only if
 	(1) restraint or seclusion is ordered by a physician or other licensed practitioner who
 		(A) is responsible for the patient's care; and
 		(B) meets the training requirements established by the center;
 	(2) restraint or seclusion is necessary for the immediate physical safety of the patient, a staff member, or another patient;
 	(3) less restrictive interventions have been attempted or have been determined to be ineffective;
 	(4) the center uses the restraint or seclusion in a manner that complies with patient rights established in 
7 AAC 12.391
;
 	(5) the restraint or seclusion type or technique is the least restrictive intervention that will be effective;
 	(6) the restraint or seclusion is imposed and monitored by staff who meet the training requirements in this section;
 	(7) the restraint or seclusion is documented in accordance with the requirements of this section;
 	(8) the restraint or seclusion is implemented in accordance with safe and appropriate techniques as set out in center policy; and
 	(9) the restraint or seclusion is discontinued at the earliest possible time.
(b) A restraint does not include a
 	(1) medical device, including
 		(A) an orthopedically prescribed device;
 		(B) a surgical dressing or bandage;
 		(C) a protective helmet; or
 		(D) another device or method used to
 		 	(i) permit the patient to participate in activities without the risk of physical harm; or
 		 	(ii) protect the patient from falling out of a bed or chair; or
 	(2) technique that involves physically holding a patient for the purpose of conducting routine physical examinations or tests.
(c) An order for restraint or seclusion
 	(1) may not be written
 		(A) as a standing order; or
 		(B) for an as-needed basis;
 	(2) may be renewed only in accordance with the following limits for up to a total of 24 hours:
 		(A) four hours for an adult 18 years of age or older;
 		(B) two hours for a child or adolescent at least nine years of age and under 18 years of age;
 		(C) one hour for a child under nine years of age; and
 	(3) may be renewed only if the physician or other licensed practitioner who is responsible for the patient's care and authorized by center policy to order restraint or seclusion performs an in-person assessment of the patient before renewing an order for restraint or seclusion to manage violent or self-destructive behavior.
(d) A patient who is placed in restraint or seclusion shall be
 	(1) given adequate hydration, food, and access to bathroom facilities;
 	(2) monitored continuously by a staff member; the staff member shall document the patient's condition at least every 15 minutes; and
 	(3) monitored at least hourly by a physician, other licensed practitioner, or trained staff who meets the training requirements established by the center and who evaluates the
 		(A) patient's immediate situation;
 		(B) patient's reaction or response to the intervention;
 		(C) patient's medical and behavioral condition; and
 		(D) need to continue or terminate the restraint or seclusion.
(e) A center shall notify the legal guardian of an adult patient, if applicable, or the parent or legal guardian of a minor placed in a restraint or seclusion intervention not more than 24 hours after the termination of the restraint or seclusion. The center shall include in the notification of restraint or seclusion
 	(1) the reason for the use of restraint or seclusion;
 	(2) the type or method of restraint or seclusion used;
 	(3) medication administered during the use of restraint or seclusion;
 	(4) the length of time the restraint or seclusion was used;
 	(5) a nurse or physician medical and behavioral evaluation of the patient following the termination of restraint or seclusion; and
 	(6) a description of any injury sustained while restraint or seclusion was used.
(f) A center shall document each use of restraint or seclusion. Documentation of each use of restraint or seclusion must include
 	(1) the physician's or other licensed practitioner's order to use restraint or seclusion;
 	(2) the documentation of continuous monitoring;
 	(3) a description of the patient's behavior, conditions, or symptoms that warranted the use of restraint or seclusion;
 	(4) the type of restraint or seclusion used;
 	(5) the less restrictive interventions attempted;
 	(6) the use of any pharmacological intervention, including the name of the medication, dose, and route and time of delivery;
 	(7) the patient's response to pharmacological intervention;
 	(8) the rationale for renewal orders, if applicable;
 	(9) a patient evaluation conducted not more than one hour after the restraint or seclusion is implemented, including the
 		(A) patient's immediate condition;
 		(B) patient's reaction or response to the restraint or seclusion;
 		(C) patient's medical and behavioral condition; and
 		(D) need to continue or terminate the restraint or seclusion; and
 	(10) notification under (e) of this section, including
 		(A) the name and credentials of the staff member who notified an adult patient's legal guardian, if applicable, or a minor's parent or guardian;
 		(B) the name of the parent or legal guardian who was notified; and
 		(C) the date and time the parent or legal guardian was notified.
(g) A center shall establish and implement a restraint and seclusion training plan that
 	(1) requires a staff member to successfully complete training and demonstrate competencies seclusion;
 		(A) as part of new employee orientation for all staff;
 		(B) annually after the initial orientation; and
 		(C) before the staff member performs any action related to restraint or seclusion
 	(2) requires staff to demonstrate competency in
 		(A) techniques to identify staff and patient behaviors, events, and environmental factors that may trigger circumstances that require use of restraint or seclusion;
 		(B) the use of nonphysical and less restrictive intervention before using restraint or seclusion;
 		(C) choosing the least restrictive intervention based on an individualized assessment of the patient's medical or behavioral status or condition;
 		(D) the safe application and use of restraint or seclusion used in the center;
 		(E) monitoring and assessing the physical and psychological well-being of the patient who is restrained or secluded, including
 		 	(i) respiratory and circulatory status;
 		 	(ii) skin integrity;
 		 	(iii) vital signs;
 		 	(iv) recognizing and responding to signs of physical and psychological distress;
 		 	(v) clinical identification of specific behavioral changes that indicate that restraint or seclusion is no longer necessary; and
 		 	(vi) any requirements established by facility policy;
 		(F) providing care to a patient who is restrained or secluded; and
 		(G) documenting restraint or seclusion; and
 	(3) maintains training records in each staff member's employee record.
(h) A center shall report to the department, not more than 24 hours after the death, a patient death that occurred
 	(1) while the patient was in restraint or seclusion; or
 	(2) during the 24 hours after the patient's restraint or seclusion was terminated.
7 AAC 12.391.  Patient rights.
(a) A center shall develop, implement, and comply with policies and procedures that
 	(1) protect each patient's rights;
 	(2) respond to questions and grievances pertaining to patient rights;
 	(3) comply with 
AS 47.30.825
, this section, and other state law and regulations regarding patient rights; and
 	(4) comply with 
AS 47.30.700
, 47.30.705(d), this section, and other state law and regulations regarding minors' rights.
(b) A center's patient has the right to
 	(1) be informed of patient rights and responsibilities at the time of admission or shortly after admission;
 	(2) have a patient, patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, family member, or parent of a minor patient, or the patient's own physician notified of the patient's admission to the center upon request;
 	(3) receive treatment and medical services without discrimination based on race, age, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, diagnosis, ability to pay, or source of payment;
 	(4) be free from abuse, neglect, exploitation, or harassment;
 	(5) be free from physical or mental abuse, corporal punishment, or the imposition of any form of restraint or seclusion as a means of coercion, discipline, convenience, or retaliation by the staff;
 	(6) receive care in a safe setting;
 	(7) receive translator or interpreter services to facilitate communication between the patient and the staff, if applicable;
 	(8) be informed of the patient's health status and to participate in the development of, implementation of, and updates to the patient's treatment plan of care or discharge plan and to receive instructions for self-care and treatment that include explanation of adverse symptoms and necessary precautions, as appropriate;
 	(9) make informed decisions regarding the patient's care in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations;
 	(10) consult freely and privately with the patient's legal counsel or to contact an attorney at any reasonable time;
 	(11) be informed, in writing, of the policies and procedures for initiation, review, and resolution of a grievance or patient complaint;
 	(12) submit a complaint or a grievance without fear of reprisal;
 	(13) keep the patient's information and medical records confidential in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations, including all computerized medical information;
 	(14) receive a copy of the center's rules and regulations upon admission or shortly after admission;
 	(15) receive treatment in the least restrictive environment that meets the patient's needs;
 	(16) be subjected to restraint or seclusion only in accordance with federal and state law and regulations;
 	(17) contact the department at any reasonable time;
 	(18) obtain a copy of patient rights and the department's address and telephone number at any time;
 	(19) receive personal hygiene products, including shampoo, deodorant, toothbrush, toothpaste, and soap, if needed and safe for the patient to use or possess; and
 	(20) have reasonable communication with and visits by an individual of the patient's choice unless the center or the department imposes reasonable restrictions for medical, psychiatric, safety, or legal reasons.
(c) A patient's legal guardian or chosen designated representative, or the parent of a minor patient, has the right to
 	(1) be informed of patient rights and responsibilities at the time of admission or shortly after admission;
 	(2) be informed of the patient's health status and to participate in the development of, implementation of, and updates to the patient's treatment plan of care or discharge plan and to receive instructions for self-care and treatment that include explanation of adverse symptoms and necessary precautions, as appropriate;
 	(3) make informed decisions regarding the patient's care in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations;
 	(4) be informed, in writing, of the policies and procedures for initiation, review, and resolution of a grievance or patient complaint;
 	(5) submit a complaint or a grievance without fear of reprisal;
 	(6) receive a copy of the center's rules and regulations upon admission or shortly after admission; and
 	(7) obtain a copy of patient rights and the department's address and telephone number at any time.
(d) A center shall post a copy of the patient's rights in an area accessible to patients.
(e) A center shall establish written procedures to ensure a patient grievance or a patient's legal guardian's, chosen representative's, family member's, or parent of a minor patient's grievance is delivered to the center's administration. The center's administration shall acknowledge receipt of the grievance and take appropriate action. The center shall maintain a grievance log that includes action taken. The grievance log must be retained for not fewer than three years.
7 AAC 12.393.  Medical record service.
(a) A center shall keep a record for each patient who is admitted or accepted for treatment. Patient medical records are the center's property and are subject to the requirements of 
AS 18.05.042
, 
7 AAC 105.230
, and 
7 AAC 105.240
. Nothing in this section affects statutes or regulations that govern patient medical record access, use, disclosure, confidentiality, or retention, or maintenance of health information in a patient's record by a health care provider. A center shall maintain the patient's original record or an accurate reproduction of the record's contents in a form that is legible and readily available for not fewer than seven years after the patient is discharged, except that the records of a patient who was a minor at the time the center provided services must be retained until the minor reaches 21 years of age, or seven years after the patient is discharged, whichever is longer. The center shall provide the records to
 	(1) the attending physician, a practitioner responsible for the patient's treatment, a member of the center's medical staff, or a department representative upon request; or
 	(2) another practitioner upon the patient's written request.
(b) Each patient medical record must include, as appropriate,
 	(1) an identification sheet that includes the patient's
 		(A) name;
 		(B) medical record number;
 		(C) address on the date of admission;
 		(D) date of birth;
 		(E) sex;
 		(F) marital status;
 		(G) religious preference;
 		(H) dates of service;
 		(I) parent's, legal guardian's, or other contact person's name, address, and telephone number;
 		(J) attending physician's name;
 		(K) initial diagnostic impression;
 		(L) date of discharge and final diagnosis; and
 		(M) source of payment;
 	(2) a medical and psychiatric history and examination;
 	(3) consultation reports and special studies reports;
 	(4) a documentation method that includes orders signed by a licensed prescriber;
 	(5) progress notes for each service or treatment received;
 	(6) nurses' notes that must include
 		(A) an accurate record of care provided;
 		(B) a record of pertinent observations and response to treatment, including psychosocial and physical manifestations;
 		(C) an assessment when the center admits the patient;
 		(D) a discharge plan;
 		(E) the name and dosage, and the administration date, time, route, and location for each medication or treatment; each administration record entry must include the patient's response and the signature of the person who administered the medication or treatment; and
 		(F) a record of restraint or seclusion used that includes the duration of each restraint or seclusion;
 	(7) court orders relevant to involuntary treatment;
 	(8) laboratory reports;
 	(9) radiology reports; and
 	(10) consent forms.
(c) A center shall develop, maintain, and implement policies and procedures to protect the information in medical records from loss, defacement, tampering, or access by unauthorized persons.
(d) A center shall keep medical records readily available, accessible, and organized.
(e) A patient's written consent, or a patient's parent's or legal guardian's written consent, if applicable, is required to release patient information that is not otherwise authorized by law to be released without consent.
(f) A center shall comply with P.L. 104-191 (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act 1996).
7 AAC 12.395.  Risk management.
(a) A center shall develop, implement, and comply with center-specific written policies and procedures governing the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.389
, including
 	(1) the protection of each patient's health, safety, and well-being;
 	(2) the provision of treatment for patients to achieve optimal stabilization;
 	(3) patient access to medically necessary care;
 	(4) uniform physical and mental health screenings for
 		(A) patient placement and quality assessment;
 		(B) diagnosis;
 		(C) evaluation; and
 		(D) referral to an appropriate level of care;
 	(5) operational capability and compliance;
 	(6) the delivery of cost-effective services in conformity with current standards of practice;
 	(7) confidentiality and security of patient information, records, and files;
 	(8) prohibiting illegal or coercive inducement, solicitation, or kickbacks;
 	(9) patient rights;
 	(10) a patient grievance procedure;
 	(11) emergency preparedness;
 	(12) abuse or neglect;
 	(13) incident or accident response, including medical emergencies;
 	(14) universal precautions;
 	(15) service documentation;
 	(16) admission, including descriptions of physical and mental health screening and assessment procedures;
 	(17) transfer and discharge procedures;
 	(18) behavior management;
 	(19) infection control practices that meet current state and federal infection control guidelines;
 	(20) transportation for patient transfer, if applicable;
 	(21) quality assurance;
 	(22) medical and nursing services;
 	(23) emergency care;
 	(24) photographing or recording patients;
 	(25) contraband; and
 	(26) an operational and safety plan to prevent adult patients from visual or physical contact with minor patients; the plan must identify
 		(A) areas for adult and minor patient use at separate times;
 		(B) areas exclusively for adult or minor patient use; and
 		(C) staff oversight protocols to implement the operational and safety plan.
(b) A center shall develop, implement, and comply with written personnel policies that include 
 	(1) staff and volunteer
 		(A) recruitment;
 		(B) screening;
 		(C) orientation;
 		(D) ongoing training;
 		(E) development;
 		(F) supervision; and
 		(G) performance evaluation;
 	(2) a written job description for each staff and volunteer position;
 	(3) an employee grievance procedure;
 	(4) an abuse reporting procedure that requires a staff member to report
 		(A) an allegation of patient abuse or mistreatment under state and federal law; and
 		(B) an allegation of patient abuse, neglect, exploitation, or misappropriation to appropriate state agencies;
 	(5) a non-discrimination policy;
 	(6) a policy that requires an employee to report signs or symptoms of a communicable disease or personal illness to the employee's supervisor, manager, or clinical director as soon as possible to prevent the spread of disease or illness to other individuals;
 	(7) a procedure to ensure that only qualified personnel provide care within the scope of the center's services;
 	(8) a policy that governs staff conduct and a procedure for reporting a law, rule, or professional and ethical code of conduct violation;
 	(9) a policy that governs staff organization related to the center's purpose, setting and location;
 	(10) a procedure to verify staff credentials are legal and from an accredited institution; and
 	(11) criminal background checks, adverse action, and registry checks under 
AS 47.05.300
 - 47.05.390 (criminal and civil history) and 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
 (barrier crimes and conditions; background checks).
(c) A center shall review written policies and procedures at least annually.
(d) A center shall implement policies and procedures in compliance with federal and state laws and regulations.
(e) A center shall develop and implement patient policies and procedures that include a clearly written list of rules that govern patient conduct in the center. The center shall
 	(1) provide a copy of the center's rules to each patient or the patient's parent or legal guardian, if applicable; and
 	(2) post the rules in a conspicuous location that is accessible to patients.
(f) A crisis stabilization center shall develop, implement, and comply with policies and procedures that
 	(1) consider a patient's chronological and developmental age, diagnosis, and severity of illness before the center assigns a chair to the patient; and
 	(2) assign a chair to each patient.
(g) A crisis residential center shall develop, implement, and comply with policies and procedures that
 	(1) consider a patient's chronological and developmental age, diagnosis, and severity of illness before the center assigns a sleeping area or bedroom to the patient; and
 	(2) assign a bed to each patient.
(h) A center shall have a written emergency preparedness plan to
 	(1) maintain continuity of the center's operations in preparation for, during, and after an emergency or disaster;
 	(2) conduct a hazard vulnerability assessment every two years;
 	(3) manage the consequences of a disaster or emergency that disrupts the center's ability to render care and treatment, or that threatens patient lives or safety; and
 	(4) comply with current state and federal infection control guidelines in preparation for, during, and after a public health emergency or disaster.
(i) A center shall
 	(1) post exit diagrams that show how to clear the building safely and in a timely manner;
 	(2) have a clearly labeled and legible master floor plan that indicates
 		(A) the areas for patient use as shelter or a safe zone during an emergency;
 		(B) the location of emergency power outlets, if applicable;
 		(C) the locations where emergency information is posted and accessible;
 		(D) the equipment and devices that an emergency generator will power during an emergency, if applicable; and
 		(E) the location of smoke or fire barriers and of smoke compartments; and
 	(3) provide emergency or disaster preparedness training to center employees; the training must
 		(A) include orientation, ongoing training, and participation in planned drills for all personnel;
 		(B) be developed based on high-risk disasters identified in the center's most recent hazard vulnerability assessment; and
 		(C) include a fire response plan.
(j) A center's emergency preparedness plan must include provisions for
 	(1) an evacuation plan that includes
 		(A) evacuating and delivering essential services to each patient;
 		(B) a method to notify the patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, family member, or parent of a minor patient, if applicable, that includes
 		 	(i) the date and approximate time of evacuation;
 		 	(ii) the location to which the patient will be or was evacuated, including the location's name and address; and
 		 	(iii) a telephone number that patient's legal guardian, chosen representative, family member, or parent of a minor patient may call for information regarding the patient's evacuation;
 		(C) transferring the patient's supplies, medications, clothing, and treatment plan to the location to which the patient is evacuated;
 		(D) transferring the evacuating patient's identification, including the patient's
 		 	(i) diagnoses;
 		 	(ii) medication, including dosage and administration times;
 		 	(iii) allergies;
 		 	(iv) special dietary needs or restrictions; and
 		 	(v) next of kin name and contact information, if applicable; and
 		(E) transporting or arranging for transportation during an evacuation;
 	(2) maintaining continuity of care during an emergency, including distributing and assigning responsibilities and functions among the staff;
 	(3) delivering essential care and services to each patient who is housed in the center or by the center at an alternate location during an emergency or disaster;
 	(4) determining when the center will shelter in place or evacuate in response to a disaster or emergency and the conditions the center will consider in making an evacuation determination; and
 	(5) necessary supplies that the center will provide during a shelter-in-place emergency, including
 		(A) drinking water or fluids; and
 		(B) non-perishable food.
(k) A center
 	(1) shall follow and execute the emergency preparedness plan in response to a declared disaster or other emergency;
 	(2) may not abandon a patient during a disaster or emergency;
 	(3) shall review and update the emergency preparedness plan at least every two years, or if significant changes occur in the emergency preparedness planning process;
 	(4) cooperate with the department and other government agencies in the event of an emergency or disaster and shall provide information as requested;
 	(5) monitor weather warnings and watches and evacuation orders from local and state emergency preparedness officials;
 	(6) submit a copy of the emergency preparedness plan for review to the department upon request; and
 	(7) submit a post-disaster written summary to the department upon request; the summary must describe how the center followed and executed the emergency preparedness plan, including
 		(A) the type of emergency or disaster and the date the emergency or disaster occurred;
 		(B) the evacuation status of the staff and patients;
 		(C) the plan provisions applicable to the emergency or disaster;
 		(D) a list of each patient injury or death that occurred during a shelter-in-place event, evacuation, or temporary relocation, including the
 		 	(i) date;
 		 	(ii) time; and
 		 	(iii) cause and circumstances;
 		(E) a list of complete or partial service or structure losses; and
 		(F) a patient care impact report that includes incidents of inability to care for patients.
(l) A center shall develop and implement a safety plan that
 	(1) prohibits weapons of any kind in patient care areas, except for a weapon in the possession of a local, state, or federal law enforcement or peace officer who is conducting an authorized duty;
 	(2) prohibits hazardous materials or plastic bags in areas accessible to patients;
 	(3) requires poisonous, toxic, or flammable material to be
 		(A) maintained in an appropriate and clearly labeled container;
 		(B) securely stored in a locked cabinet or closet; and
 		(C) used in a safe manner
 		 	(i) in accordance with federal and state law and regulations;
 		 	(ii) following manufacturer instructions; and
 		 	(iii) without endangering patients, staff, and visitors;
 	(4) requires equipment, furnishings, or other items that are in a state of disrepair to be removed and made inaccessible to patients until replaced or repaired;
 	(5) allows only staff members to use a potentially harmful material, including a cleaning solvent or detergent; and
 	(6) requires a staff member who uses a potentially harmful material, including a cleaning solvent or detergent, to be trained on the safe use of the material.
(m) A center shall ensure that a first aid kit is available in the center.
(n) A center shall provide additional supervision for each patient's safety, when necessary.
(o) A center shall pass required inspections and keep reports and other documentation on file to demonstrate compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
(p) A center shall have an ongoing safety program that includes
 	(1) continuously inspecting the center for possible hazards;
 	(2) continuously monitoring safety equipment and performing maintenance or repair when needed;
 	(3) investigating and documenting accidents or emergencies;
 	(4) fire control, evacuation planning, and other emergency drills; and
 	(5) performing fire and other emergency drills at least once a quarter and maintaining patient safety and security during each drill.
(q) A center shall have a quality assurance plan and program that
 	(1) keeps the center's overall function in compliance with federal, state, and local laws;
 	(2) meets the needs of each patient in the area;
 	(3) meets the goals and objectives established in the center's mission, vision, and core values;
 	(4) maintains a system to effectively monitor, evaluate, identify, correct, or reassess a care practice that
 	(A) negatively affects the quality of patient care or services provided;
 	(B) results in an accident or injury to a patient or staff member; and
 	(C) documents deficiencies found and remedial actions taken;
 	(5) improves individual outcomes and individual satisfaction; and
 	(6) is updated on an ongoing basis to reflect changes, corrections, or other modifications.
(r) A center's quality assurance plan must include
 	(1) a quarterly sample review of patient case records to ensure that
 		(A) individual treatment plans are current;
 		(B) records are accurate, complete, and current; and
 		(C) treatment plans have been developed and implemented as ordered;
 	(2) a quarterly review to identify risk factors that may affect the health, safety or welfare of each patient, including
 		(A) patient grievances, including grievance resolution;
 		(B) incidents that resulted in patient harm or elopement;
 		(C) allegations of abuse, neglect, or exploitation; and
 		(D) seclusion and restraint data; the center shall
 		 	(i) maintain and analyze seclusion and restraint data for patterns of occurrences and negative outcomes; and
 		 	(ii) develop and implement an action plan based on data analysis;
 	(3) a process to correct an identified problem and track improvement;
 	(4) a process to identify and implement opportunities for improvement;
 	(5) an internal evaluation procedure to collect data necessary for the plan's development; and
 	(6) semi-annual meetings of the center's quality assurance committee to evaluate the quality assurance process and activities; the committee must include the center administrator, clinical director, and at least two other staff members.
(s) A center shall maintain quality assurance activity documentation for not less than 12 months.
(t) A center shall report the following to the department in writing not more than 24 hours after the center becomes aware of the event:
 	(1) a disaster, emergency, or other unexpected event that causes significant program operation disruption;
 	(2) a patient's death or serious injury if
 		(A) the death or serious injury is potentially related to program activities; and
 		(B) the patient was an active patient of the center;
 	(3) an allegation of patient abuse, neglect, exploitation, or misappropriation of patient funds.
7 AAC 12.399.  Definitions.
In 
7 AAC 12.375
 - 
7 AAC 12.399
, unless the context requires otherwise,
 	(1) "approved application" means an application that has been completed and submitted with the appropriate fee, and that the department has determined is sufficient to allow a subacute mental health facility to commence operations;
 	(2) "center" means a crisis stabilization center, a crisis residential center, or a collocated center;
 	(3) "collocated center" means a subacute mental health facility that provides crisis stabilization center and crisis residential center services in the same building or in adjoining or adjacent buildings;
 	(4) "collocated facility" means a provider other than a subacute mental health facility that provides services in the same building as, or in a building that is adjoining or adjacent to, a center;
 	(5) "controlled substance" means
 		(A) a narcotic, depressant, hallucinogenic, or stimulant drug as set out in the schedules in 
AS 11.71.140
 - 11.71.190; and
 		(B) a drug subject to 21 U.S.C. 801 - 971 (Controlled Substances Act of 1970), amended as of December 31, 2022;
 	(6) "crisis residential center" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;
 	(7) "crisis stabilization center" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;
 	(8) "monolithic ceiling" means a ceiling formed or composed of material without joints or seams;
 	(9) "on-site" or "on site" means physically present at a location in the center;
 	(10) "restraint" means
 		(A) any manual method, physical or mechanical device, material, or equipment that immobilizes or reduces the patient's ability to freely move arms, legs, body, or head; or
 		(B) a drug or medication that 
 		 	(i) is used as a restriction to manage the patient's behavior or restrict the patient's freedom of movement; and
 		 	(ii) is not a standard treatment or dosage for the patient's condition;
 	(11) "seclusion" means the involuntary confinement of a patient
 		(A) for the management of violent or self-destructive behavior; and
 		(B) alone in a room or area from which the patient is physically prevented from leaving;
 	(12) "subacute mental health facility" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;
 	(13) "therapeutic communication" means a type of professional communication used by direct care staff to establish trust and rapport with a patient; therapeutic communication
 		(A) uses verbal and nonverbal techniques to assist a patient in a nonjudgmental way, while showing empathy and concern; and
 		(B) involves both verbal and nonverbal communication from the direct care staff to convey a message in a calm manner;
 	(14) "therapeutic milieu" means a structured environment that promotes a safe, secure place for people who need psychiatric services; a therapeutic milieu supports an individual's wellbeing and progress while seeking psychiatric treatment;
 	(15) "universal precautions" means the infection control precautions that are recommended by the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, to prevent the transmission of blood-borne pathogens.
Article 10
 Free-standing Birth Centers
7 AAC 12.400.  Licensure.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.401.  Determination of a free-standing birth center; scope of services.
(a) Subject to (b) of this section, the department will consider an entity to be a free-standing birth center if the entity   
 	(1) is a publicly or privately owned facility, place, or institution that is constructed, renovated, leased, rented, or otherwise established;   
 	(2) is a place   
 		(A) where midwifery services are provided;   
 		(B) that is physically separate from acute care obstetrical services;   
 		(C) that is administratively autonomous from a hospital or other health facility; and   
 		(D) that has a separate and required staff, including administrative staff;   
 	(3) is located within 20 miles by road from a hospital that provides the services required under 
7 AAC 12.405
(g); and   
 	(4) provides planned, nonemergency midwifery services for low-risk maternal clients   
 		(A) away from the client's residence; a birth center may not offer or provide labor or delivery services at a location other than its licensed premises;   
 		(B) after a documented period of prenatal care for a normal, uncomplicated pregnancy that is determined to be low-risk through physical examinations, and through risk assessments conducted in accordance with the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f); and   
 		(C) who do not require hospitalization.   
(b) Notwithstanding (a)(2)(B), (C), and (D) of this section, a hospital or other health facility may own and operate a birth center if   
 	(1) the birth center is physically separate from the hospital's obstetrical unit;   
 	(2) each primary care provider in the birth center is a midwife;   
 	(3) the birth center operates as an administratively autonomous department and is responsible for reporting directly to the governing body of the hospital or health facility on all matters concerning the birth center; and   
 	(4) the birth center is licensed separately.   
(c) In addition to the provisions of 
7 AAC 12.401
 - 
7 AAC 12.449
, a free-standing birth center is subject to the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.600
(a), (e), and (g).
7 AAC 12.402.  Penalties.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.403.  General service requirements; restrictions.
(a) A birth center may provide midwifery services only to a woman who is a low-risk maternal client under 
7 AAC 12.446
.   
(b) If the midwife providing midwifery services in a birth center is a   
 	(1) direct-entry midwife, the birth center shall ensure that the direct-entry midwife provides midwifery services in accordance with the requirements of 
AS 08.65
 and 
12 AAC 14
, and within the scope of practice set out under 
AS 08.65
 and 
12 AAC 14
; and   
 	(2) certified nurse midwife, the birth center shall ensure that the certified nurse midwife provides midwifery services in accordance with the requirements of 
AS 08.68
 and 
12 AAC 44
, and within the scope of practice set out under 
AS 08.68
 and 
12 AAC 44
.   
(c) The birth center shall ensure that its policies and procedures clearly describe the rights and responsibilities of a client and her family or support person. The birth center shall explain those rights and responsibilities to the client and the client's family or support person before or upon admission for care.   
(d) In addition to implementing the client rights set out in 
7 AAC 12.890
, the birth center shall   
 	(1) inform each client of the right to request transfer to a hospital for care, and advise the client that the birth center will make arrangements for any transfer;   
 	(2) inform each client of the right to refuse transfer if recommended by the midwife, and advise the client that the risks of refusing transfer include maternal or fetal death; the birth center shall document in writing any refusal described in this paragraph; and   
 	(3) provide each client with a written statement, including a glossary of terms, regarding   
 		(A) fees for services and responsibilities for payment;   
 		(B) the established criteria for admission to, and continuation in, the birth center program of care;   
 		(C) the benefits, risks, and eligibility requirements for an out-of-hospital labor and birth;   
 		(D) the services that are provided by the birth center and those that are provided by contract, consultation, or referral;   
 		(E) the identity and qualifications of care providers, consultants, and related services and institutions, including the type of current license or certification held by the midwife providing care;   
 		(F) all diagnostic procedures, reports, recommendations, and treatments;   
 		(G) the birth center's plan for providing emergency and nonemergency care to the client or newborn if a complication occurs during pregnancy or labor;   
 		(H) the approximate amount of time required to reach the nearest hospital if emergency transfer is necessary;   
 		(I) information regarding health care options, and the state of the science regarding each option, to assist the client in making informed decisions;   
 		(J) the client's rights regarding participation in   
 		 	(i) decisions relating to the plan for management of her care and any changes in that plan, including referral and transfer to other practitioners or other levels of care if requested by the client or if the care required is not within the midwife's scope of practice; and   
 		 	(ii) research or student education programs;   
 		(K) the birth center's plan for hearing grievances;   
 		(L) the client's right to submit a complaint to the department regarding the care provided by the birth center, including information about how to contact the department; and   
 		(M) whether the birth center and clinical staff have malpractice liability insurance, if the client requests that information.   
(e) The birth center shall provide, or demonstrate the availability at another appropriate entity of, a range of services necessary to meet the physical, emotional, socioeconomic, informational, and medical needs of clients and newborns, as those needs relate to care at the birth center, including   
 	(1) an orientation to the fees and services of the birth center as described in (d) of this section;   
 	(2) prenatal care; prenatal care may be provided by a practitioner at another site, regardless of whether that practitioner is associated with the birth center;   
 	(3) an educational program for pregnancy, labor, breastfeeding, newborn care, parenting, self-care, self-help, and sibling preparation;   
 	(4) laboratory service;   
 	(5) 24-hour telephone consultation;   
 	(6) library resources;   
 	(7) intrapartum care;   
 	(8) light nourishment during labor and postpartum care;   
 	(9) immediate postpartum care;   
 	(10) home or office follow-up for the client and newborn;   
 	(11) exercise programs;   
 	(12) parent support groups;   
 	(13) postpartum classes;   
 	(14) family planning;   
 	(15) well baby care;   
 	(16) information regarding the availability of circumcision procedures at another appropriate entity;   
 	(17) a nursing mother support program;   
 	(18) well woman gynecological care; and   
 	(19) public education.   
(f) The birth center shall develop and implement a risk assessment tool to be completed for each client at admission and at regular intervals after admission, and a method or plan for consultation if necessary, to determine whether a client is a low-risk maternal client under 
7 AAC 12.446
. The risk assessment tool must include standards that, at a minimum, address   
 	(1) whether the physical examination conducted at admission or a physical examination conducted after admission detected any abnormalities;   
 	(2) the client's menstrual history;   
 	(3) any past pregnancies, including, for each pregnancy,   
 		(A) the length of the pregnancy at birth;   
 		(B) any complications during pregnancy or labor;   
 		(C) the length of labor;   
 		(D) the type of delivery; and   
 		(E) the place of delivery;   
 	(4) the client's medical history, including any history of   
 		(A) diabetes;   
 		(B) hypertension;   
 		(C) heart disease;   
 		(D) autoimmune disorders;   
 		(E) kidney disease;   
 		(F) neurological disorders;   
 		(G) epilepsy;   
 		(H) depression;   
 		(I) postpartum depression;   
 		(J) psychiatric problems;   
 		(K) hepatitis;   
 		(L) liver disease;   
 		(M) asthma;   
 		(N) tuberculosis or other pulmonary disorders;   
 		(O) varicosities;   
 		(P) phlebitis;   
 		(Q) thyroid dysfunction;   
 		(R) blood transfusions;   
 		(S) bleeding disorders;   
 		(T) trauma;   
 		(U) domestic violence;   
 		(V) allergies;   
 		(W) abnormal Papanicolaou (PAP) tests;   
 		(X) uterine anomalies;   
 		(Y) surgery;   
 		(Z) anesthetic complications;   
 		(AA) Rh sensitivity;   
 		(BB) infertility;   
 		(CC) use of prescription or nonprescription medications;   
 		(DD) alcohol use;   
 		(EE) tobacco use;   
 		(FF) substance abuse; and   
 		(GG) use of vitamins, herbs, or other nutritional, dietary, or health supplements;   
 	(5) any pertinent family history related to diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, bleeding disorders, kidney disease, stroke, or other genetic disorders or family conditions that may be significant; and   
 	(6) infection history, including   
 		(A) exposure to tuberculosis;   
 		(B) whether the client or the baby's father has a history of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), genital herpes, or any sexually transmitted disease;   
 		(C) whether the client has a history of gram positive Group B   Streptococcus; and   
 		(D) whether the client has experienced any rash or viral illness since her last menstrual period.   
(g) The birth center shall have a written plan for evaluating the services provided, for assessing outcomes, and for making necessary changes based on each evaluation.   
(h) Before admitting a client, the birth center shall ensure that the client has received ongoing prenatal care. If a client requests the services of the birth center late in pregnancy and has no evidence of ongoing prenatal care, the birth center shall ensure that   
 	(1) the risk assessment conducted in accordance with the standards developed under (f) of this section includes necessary laboratory testing;   
 	(2) the client establishes regular and ongoing prenatal care; and   
 	(3) the period of time before admission for labor and delivery is adequate to establish the client's appropriateness for birth center services.   
(i) The birth center shall develop and implement a policy approved by the governing body that provides the protocols, procedures, and parameters for acceptance of a client who requests services late in pregnancy and who has not had regular ongoing prenatal care.   
(j) The birth center shall develop and implement policies and procedures that  
 	(1) include screening for domestic violence or other relationship safety issues at least once during each trimester; and   
 	(2) describe how the birth center will address a domestic violence or relationship safety issue if encountered, including   
 		(A) informing the client about available resources for assistance; and   
 		(B) reporting to authorities, if appropriate.   
(k) The birth center shall develop and implement a policy and procedures manual that includes all aspects of birth center practice and care, and shall ensure that the manual is available to the clinical and support staff at all times.   
(l) The birth center shall develop written practice protocols that reflect how the birth center will implement applicable standards of practice. The birth center shall ensure that the governing body approves the practice protocols. The practice protocols must   
 	(1) include a comprehensive, step-by-step guide to care that addresses specific conditions that are expected or that may arise during prenatal care, delivery, or postpartum care; and   
 	(2) be designed to ensure and enhance safe, high-quality care.   
(m) Surgical procedures provided in a birth center must be limited to those normally performed during and after uncomplicated childbirth, and must be performed in accordance with the practice protocols developed under (  l) of this section. A surgical procedure that includes operative obstetrics or a cesarean section may not be performed in a birth center.   
(n) General or conduction anesthesia may not be administered in a birth center. Local anesthesia may be administered, and an episiotomy and episiotomy or laceration repair may be provided, if performed by a midwife in accordance with that midwife's applicable scope of practice as required under (b) of this section. The birth center shall establish and implement policies and procedures that address the administration of local anesthesia, the provision of episiotomies, and episiotomy or laceration repair.   
(o) Labor may not be induced, stimulated, or augmented with oxytocin or any other pharmacological agent. If there is fetal distress or a prolapsed cord, the birth center may use a pharmacological agent to inhibit labor while making arrangements to transport the client to a hospital.   
(p) A birth center may not use vacuum extractors, forceps, or ultrasound imaging in the birth center. Except as provided in 
7 AAC 12.430
(a)(3)(G), a birth center may not use recorded electronic fetal monitors in the birth center.  
(q) Each client and newborn must be discharged, or transferred if necessary, within 24 hours after the newborn's birth. If a longer stay becomes necessary for a client or newborn, the birth center must   
 	(1) document in the medical record that the client and newborn were expected, at the time of admission, to be discharged within 24 hours after the newborn's birth; and   
 	(2) describe in the report required under 
7 AAC 12.405
(j)(10) the reason for any stay beyond 24 hours after the newborn's birth.
7 AAC 12.404.  Application.
Before providing services, a free-standing birth center must have a current license issued under 
7 AAC 12.605
 - 
7 AAC 12.610
. In addition to meeting the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.605
 - 
7 AAC 12.610
, the applicant shall provide the following information with the initial application for a license, and with each application for renewal:   
 	(1) identification of the proposed service area;   
 	(2) an assessment of the demographic data and vital statistics of the community served, including   
 		(A) the population to be served;   
 		(B) environmental factors that might affect access to the birth center or transfer to a hospital;   
 		(C) availability of and access to maternal and newborn services, including   
 		 	(i) practitioners;   
 		 	(ii) hospital obstetrics and newborn services;   
 		 	(iii) home birth services;   
 		 	(iv) family-centered maternity care programs;   
 		 	(v) birth rooms and suites;   
 		 	(vi) clinics for disadvantaged families;   
 		 	(vii) laboratory services;   
 		 	(viii) supplementary social and welfare services;   
 		 	(ix) childbirth education; and   
 		 	(x) parent support programs;   
 		(D) the birth center's impact on the community and the needs of childbearing families in the population served; and   
 		(E) for an application for license renewal,   
 		 	(i) changes in the demographic data and vital statistics under (A) - (C) of this paragraph since the previous application was submitted;  
 		 	(ii) the number of births at the birth center during the previous 12 months;   
 		 	(iii) the number of births with complications that required transfer of the newborn to a hospital during the previous 12 months; and   
 		 	(iv) the number of births with complications that required transfer of the client to a hospital during the previous 12 months.
7 AAC 12.405.  Administration.
(a) A birth center must have a governing body that is responsible for the overall operation and maintenance of the birth center, including personnel, facilities, equipment, and supplies. The birth center shall   
 	(1) ensure that its governing body includes one or more individuals who reside in the service area; or   
 	(2) establish a mechanism for an advisory committee comprised of representatives of the public and private sector to advise the birth center regarding the quality of services provided by the birth center.   
(b) The governing body shall   
 	(1) adopt policies for the care of clients and newborns at the birth center;   
 	(2) establish and maintain a written organizational plan that describes the   
 		(A) responsibilities and accountability of each staff position, including direct and delegated authority; and   
 		(B) interrelationship of each staff position within the birth center;   
 	(3) exercise authority and responsibility for appointments to the clinical staff; and   
 	(4) ensure that   
 		(A) only a member of the clinical staff admits clients to the birth center;   
 		(B) during the active phase of the first stage of labor through delivery and postpartum, at least two individuals are present as provided in 
7 AAC 12.415
(e), each of whom has a current   
 		 	(i) adult cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) certification by or equivalent to the American Heart Association's Basic Life Support Healthcare Provider Course (BLS); and   
 		 	(ii) neonatal resuscitation provider (NRP) certification by or equivalent to the Neonatal Resuscitation Program approved by the American Academy of Pediatrics; and   
 		(C) each physician, certified nurse midwife, and direct-entry midwife on the clinical staff has a current license to practice in this state;   
 	(5) meet at least twice each year to execute responsibilities for the operation of the birth center, and maintain minutes of each meeting;   
 	(6) approve all contracts and agreements with individuals or with service agencies, including hospitals, laboratories, emergency transportation agencies, consulting specialists, teaching institutions, and organizations that conduct research; and   
 	(7) approve all contracts for student education or field experience; the governing body shall ensure that all members of the clinical staff responsible for the provision of services to clients and their families also approve these contracts.   
(c) The governing body shall appoint   
 	(1) an administrator who is responsible for operation of the birth center, and ensure that a qualified alternate individual is available in the administrator's absence; and   
 	(2) a director of the clinical staff.   
(d) The governing body shall adopt bylaws that include requirements for membership on the clinical staff and delineation of clinical privileges.   
(e) The governing body shall establish policies and procedures for implementing the quality evaluation and improvement program under 
7 AAC 12.418
 and shall, if requested, disclose to the department the nature and results of each review.   
(f) The governing body shall establish the organizational structure of the birth center operation, and shall develop, implement, and revise as necessary personnel, clinical, and administrative policies.   
(g) A birth center shall develop and implement a written plan for transferring clients and newborns to a hospital that is located within 20 miles by road of the birth center and that provides services that include   
 	(1) full-time physician coverage; and   
 	(2) the availability of full perinatal, obstetrical, and surgical capability, including   
 		(A) anesthesia;   
 		(B) a clinical laboratory;   
 		(C) a blood bank; and   
 		(D) diagnostic radiology services.   
(h) The plan required under (g) of this section must include   
 	(1) criteria for determining medical necessity for emergency and nonemergency transfer;   
 	(2) the procedures for transfer that will be followed if medical care is required for a client or newborn because complications occur during the antepartum, intrapartum, postpartum, or newborn period; in this paragraph, "newborn period" means the first 24 hours after birth; and   
 	(3) a requirement that, at the time of transfer, the birth center will provide a complete clinical record to the practitioner who assumes care of the client or newborn.   
(i) The birth center shall provide evidence satisfactory to the department that clients and newborns transferred to a hospital by the birth center are being accepted and treated by that hospital.   
(j) In addition to meeting the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.660
, the administrator shall maintain and secure for confidentiality a personnel record for each employee, including contract staff, that includes, as appropriate, evidence of current CPR and NRP certification as described in (b)(4)(B) of this section. The administrator shall also ensure that   
 	(1) the birth center's records are maintained and stored in an orderly, secure manner;   
 	(2) the birth center develops and implements policies and procedures for interaction with other agencies, institutions, and individuals for services to clients and newborns, including   
 		(A) obstetric and newborn acute care in a licensed hospital;   
 		(B) transportation services;   
 		(C) obstetric, pediatric, or neonatal consultation services, including consultation through telemedicine;   
 		(D) laboratory and diagnostic services;   
 		(E) childbirth education and parent education support services; and   
 		(F) home health care services;   
 	(3) contracts, agreements, policies, and procedures are reviewed under 
7 AAC 12.418
 at least annually, are updated as necessary, and are approved by the governing body;   
 	(4) the birth center develops and implements a public education plan for informing the community of the services available at, and limitations of, the birth center;   
 	(5) the birth center establishes and maintains a safe, home-like environment for its clients;   
 	(6) the birth center provides adequate space for furnishings, equipment, and supplies to comfortably accommodate the number of childbearing families to be served and the personnel providing services;   
 	(7) the birth center, in addition to complying with 
7 AAC 10.9610
(i), maintains a record of routine periodic inspections by state and municipal authorities responsible for health, fire, building, and public safety;   
 	(8) smoking is prohibited in the birth center;   
 	(9) the birth center submits a detailed written report to the department within 24 hours after any event involving   
 		(A) the emergency transfer of a client or newborn to a hospital; and   
 		(B) a significant outcome, including   
 		 	(i) the death of a client or newborn;   
 		 	(ii) respiratory instability;   
 		 	(iii) cardiac arrest;   
 		 	(iv) a newborn born with a low Apgar score;   
 		 	(v) a newborn born prematurely;   
 		 	(vi) a newborn displaying a seizure, hyptonia, unresponsiveness, or another neurological manifestation; and   
 		 	(vii) a newborn displaying an organ dysfunction or other abnormality; and   
 	(10) the birth center reports in writing to the department within seven days after any occurrence involving a client stay of more than 24 hours, and includes the reason for the stay.
7 AAC 12.410.  Personnel.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.415.  Clinical staff and support staff.
(a) In addition to meeting the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.660
, a birth center shall ensure that sufficient, qualified clinical staff and support staff are on duty and on call for the routine delivery of services needed by clients and newborns, and for the safe maintenance and operation of the birth center. The birth center shall assure client and newborn safety, including during any period of high demand or emergency, and shall assure that each client who is in active labor is attended as required under (e) of this section. The birth center shall   
 	(1) post a schedule listing available clinical staff and consulting specialists who may be contacted if necessary;   
 	(2) ensure that written personnel policies are available to personnel; these policies must include at least the following:   
 		(A) conditions of employment;   
 		(B) the respective obligations of employer and employee;   
 		(C) grievance procedures;   
 	(3) provide for training, education, and development of the clinical staff and support staff, including at least the following:   
 		(A) orientation of new staff members, including policies and procedures, infection control, fire safety, and the proper use of equipment used to care for clients and newborns in the birth center;   
 		(B) a reference library of current, relevant materials;   
 		(C) an in-service education program to maintain currency in relevant knowledge and skills, including skills that are used infrequently in birth center practice;   
 		(D) participation in continuing professional education programs, or information to assist the staff in participating in professional education programs provided elsewhere;   
 		(E) involvement in activities of professional organizations;   
 		(F) the annual training required under 
7 AAC 12.860
(4);   
 		(G) the training required under 
7 AAC 12.416
(b).   
(b) The birth center shall ensure that an experienced, competent practitioner in obstetrics and gynecology is immediately available to the birth center by radio, telephone, or another means of direct communication for consultation or transfer of care. The practitioner must be a physician certified by the American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology, a physician who is otherwise qualified through training and experience in obstetrics and gynecology, or a certified nurse midwife. The birth center shall develop and follow a written plan for consultation or transfer of care that includes   
 	(1) a plan for the delivery of care in a life-threatening situation; and   
 	(2) detailed instructions for the staff if no practitioner can be reached for consultation or transfer of care.   
(c) If the practitioner providing services in a birth center is a   
 	(1) certified nurse midwife, the birth center must maintain a record of the written plan required under 
12 AAC 44.400
(a)(5) and include that plan in the written plan for consultation required under (b) of this section; or   
 	(2) direct-entry midwife, the birth center must maintain a record of the written medical back-up arrangements required in 
12 AAC 14.550
(a) and include it in the plan for consultation required under (b) of this section.   
(d) Midwifery services must include antepartum, intrapartum, and postpartum care.   
(e) For each client who is admitted for delivery, a physician or a midwife who is certified in CPR and NRP as required under 
7 AAC 12.405
(b)(4)(B) must be present from the time of admission through all stages of labor and delivery. A second person, who is an employee, a member of the clinical staff, or a student midwife, and who is certified in CPR and NRP as required under 
7 AAC 12.405
(b)(4)(B), must be   
 	(1) immediately available to the birth center during the latent phase of the first stage of labor;   
 	(2) present in the birth center during the active phase of the first stage of labor, if determined necessary by the midwife; and   
 	(3) present during delivery and for at least the first hour of the postpartum phase.
7 AAC 12.416.  Client management.
(a) A birth center must develop and implement written policies and procedures for client management that are approved by the governing body and that include   
 	(1) policies and procedures to ensure that eligibility for birth services offered by the birth center is limited to low-risk maternal clients, as determined upon admission and at regular intervals after admission through a physical examination and through a risk assessment conducted in accordance with the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f);   
 	(2) a procedure for identification and transfer of a client who, during the course of pregnancy, labor, or recovery, is determined to be ineligible for continued care in the birth center;   
 	(3) plans for consultation, backup services, transfer, and transport of a client or newborn to a hospital where appropriate care is available;   
 	(4) a requirement for an informed consent that   
 		(A) is signed by the client before the onset of labor; and   
 		(B) includes evidence that the client has received an explanation by personnel of the birth services offered and potential risks involved;   
 	(5) provision of education of clients, family, and support persons in childbirth and newborn care;   
 	(6) plans for immediate follow-up of clients after discharge from the birth center;   
 	(7) entering onto the client's medical record evidence of registration of birth with the bureau of vital statistics and completion of a birth certificate;   
 	(8) reporting of complications and anomalies to the department, and to the pediatric or neonatal provider identified by the client;   
 	(9) prophylactic care of the newborn's eyes;   
 	(10) procedures for   
 		(A) distribution of information to clients regarding availability of resources for vitamin K, erythromycin eye prophylaxis, newborn hearing screening tests, bloodspot screening, and other screening tests required by law;   
 		(B) providing a referral to each client before discharge;   
 		(C) following up with each client after discharge to remind the client that the tests referred to in (A) of this paragraph are critical to the newborn's health; and   
 		(D) documenting that the steps set out in (A) - (C) of this paragraph have been followed;   
 	(11) methods to protect each client's right to dignity, privacy, safety, and confidentiality;   
 	(12) procedures for administering newborn bloodspot screening in compliance with 
7 AAC 27.510
 - 
7 AAC 27.590
 (Screening of Newborn Children for Congenital Disorders);   
 	(13) policies and procedures that cover medical emergencies, client teaching, and discharge planning; in this paragraph, "client teaching" means instruction of a client in diet, medication, exercise, and other therapeutic measures suggested for consideration by the client after discharge; and   
 	(14) policies and procedures for   
 		(A) gram positive Group B   Streptococcus screening, management, and treatment;   
 		(B) information to be provided to the client regarding Group B   Streptococcus; and   
 		(C) monitoring after delivery of each newborn born to a client who tests positive for Group B   Streptococcus or to a client with unknown status.   
(b) In addition to the orientation and training required under 
7 AAC 12.860
(4), the birth center shall provide and document orientation and in-service training for all employees in client management consistent with the policies and procedures developed under (a) of this section.
7 AAC 12.418.  Evaluation and improvement of quality of care.
(a) The birth center shall develop and implement a program for evaluating and improving the quality of   
 	(1) direct care services to childbearing families; and   
 	(2) the environment in which services are provided.   
(b) The birth center shall   
 	(1) include in its evaluation and improvement program an organizational plan to identify and resolve problems; and   
 	(2) hold regular meetings of the clinical staff to review the management of care of individual clients and newborns and to make recommendations for improving the plan of care.   
(c) In the evaluation and improvement program for direct care services for clients and newborns, the birth center shall review and document at least annually   
 	(1) protocols, policies, and procedures relating to client and newborn care, and revise any protocol, policy, or procedure as necessary;   
 	(2) the appropriateness of the risk assessment standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f) for determining eligibility for admission to and continuation in the birth center program of care;   
 	(3) the appropriateness of diagnostic and screening procedures, including laboratory studies, sonography, and non-stress tests, as those procedures affect quality of care and cost to the client;   
 	(4) the appropriateness of medications prescribed, dispensed, or administered by the birth center;   
 	(5) performance evaluation, including peer review, for each employee, including contract staff, with results maintained in the personnel record;   
 	(6) transfers of clients and newborns to hospital care; to determine the appropriateness and quality of each transfer, the birth center shall establish procedures for the evaluation of emergency and non-emergency transfers, including   
 		(A) the amount of time to complete transfers;   
 		(B) the efficiency of transportation services;   
 		(C) the reception of the client and newborn at the hospital; and   
 		(D) client satisfaction with the transfer, if that information is provided by the client, either verbally or in writing;   
 	(7) problems or complications of pregnancy, labor, and postpartum care, and the appropriateness of the practitioner's clinical judgment in obtaining consultation and addressing each problem; and   
 	(8) an evaluation of staff ability to manage emergency situations, including client and newborn emergencies, power failures and similar emergencies, and unannounced periodic fire drills.   
(d) The birth center shall ensure that each review under this section includes at least 20 percent of all births, 100 percent of all transfers to a hospital of clients or newborns, and all significant outcomes required to be reported under 
7 AAC 12.405
(j)(9)(B), during the period covered by the review. The birth center shall document each review and any action taken as a result of the identification of issues that might affect the quality of care and services.  
(e) The birth center shall include in the evaluation and improvement program at least the following measures, for purposes of ensuring a safe, home-like environment:   
 	(1) routine testing of the efficiency and effectiveness of equipment, including sphygmomanometers, Doppler fetal heart monitors, sterilizers, resuscitation equipment, transport equipment, oxygen equipment, communication equipment, heat sources for newborns, smoke alarms, and fire extinguishers;   
 	(2) routine review of housekeeping procedures and infection control;   
 	(3) an evaluation of maintenance policies and procedures for heat, ventilation, emergency lighting, waste disposal, water supply, and laundry and kitchen equipment.   
(f) The birth center shall ensure that the evaluation and improvement program monitors and promotes quality of care to clients and newborns through an effective system for collection and analysis of data, including   
 	(1) utilization of   
 		(A) orientation sessions;   
 		(B) childbirth-related educational programs;   
 		(C) postpartum home visits;   
 		(D) follow-up postpartum office visits by the client; and   
 		(E) follow-up office visits for the newborn;   
 	(2) types of local anesthetics and analgesia used; and   
 	(3) outcomes of care provided, including   
 		(A) clients registered for care;   
 		(B) time in the birth center before birth;   
 		(C) time in the birth center after birth;   
 		(D) clients admitted to the birth center for intrapartum care;   
 		(E) births in the birth center;   
 		(F) births en route to the birth center;   
 		(G) clients transferred antepartum, intrapartum, or postpartum, including the reason for the transfer;   
 		(H) newborns transferred, including the reason for the transfer;   
 		(I) type of delivery, including nonsterile vaginal delivery;   
 		(J) episiotomies;   
 		(K) fourth degree lacerations;   
 		(L) newborns with birth weight less than 2,500 grams;   
 		(M) newborns with birth weight greater than 4,500 grams;   
 		(N) Apgar scores six and below, when taken at five minutes after birth;   
 		(O) neonatal mortality;   
 		(P) spontaneous abortions;   
 		(Q) maternal mortality; and   
 		(R) client satisfaction with services provided, if that information is provided by the client, either verbally or in writing.   
(g) The birth center shall seek consultation and expertise from individuals who are not associated with the birth center to review problems that are identified through the evaluation and improvement program and that the birth center is unable to resolve internally.   
(h) The birth center shall take appropriate action to resolve problems, including   
 	(1) administrative or supervisory action;   
 	(2) in-service education and training;   
 	(3) modification of policies and procedures;   
 	(4) revision of the risk assessment standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f); and   
 	(5) revision of any standard forms used for client and newborn records or other purposes.   
(i) The birth center may provide an alternative intervention appropriate for use in birth centers, including water birth, use of homeopathic or herbal medicines, or another alternative intervention intended for use in the perinatal period. In this subsection, "alternative intervention" means a low-technology intervention that is not generally used in a medical or hospital setting. Before using an alternative intervention, the birth center must ensure that   
 	(1) documented science-based evidence exists that the alternative intervention can be used safely in a birth center setting for pregnant or laboring women; and   
 	(2) the alternative intervention is supported by the American College of Nurse Midwives, the American Association of Birth Centers, the Midwives Association of North America, or another nationally-recognized professional organization.
7 AAC 12.420.  Drugs and biologicals.
(a) A birth center must have and observe written policies and procedures for   
 	(1) receiving, transcribing, and implementing orders for the administration of drugs;   
 	(2) labeling of every drug, medication, and chemical in the center with its name, strength, and expiration date; and   
 	(3) ensuring that a midwife who administers medications and intravenous solutions does so only as authorized under   
 		(A) 
AS 08.68
 and 
12 AAC 44
, if the midwife is a certified nurse midwife; and   
 		(B) 
AS 08.65
 and 
12 AAC 14
, if the midwife is a direct-entry midwife.   
(b) Anesthetic agents other than local anesthetics may not be present at a birth center.   
(c) Every drug, chemical, and medication must be stored and secured in a cabinet, closet, drawer, or storeroom and may be accessible only to authorized persons.   
(d) Every poisonous chemical, caustic material, or drug must have a warning or poison label and must be stored separately from other drugs. Drugs for external use must be separated from drugs for internal use.   
(e) A birth center shall ensure that drugs listed in schedules II, III, IV, and V under 21 U.S.C. 801 - 904 (Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970) are kept locked within a secure area in accordance with a written procedure for accountability.
7 AAC 12.425.  Medical records.
(a) A birth center shall keep records for all clients admitted. Originals, or accurate reproductions of the contents of the originals, of all records, including x-rays, must be maintained in a form that is legible and uniform, contains complete and accurate client and newborn information, and fully describes continuity of care. The birth center shall ensure that these records are readily available upon the request of the physician, consulting physician, midwife, or the department or, upon the client's written request, to other practitioners. The birth center shall maintain each record in a system that protects confidentiality of the information contained in its records, that provides for proper storage, easy retrieval, and prevention of loss, and that protects against the use or disclosure of protected health information except as required or permitted by 45 C.F.R. Part 160, subpart C, and 45 C.F.R. Part 164, subpart E, adopted by reference in 
7 AAC 12.770
(d). The birth center shall develop, for use by the clinical staff, a form for providing information necessary for a transfer of a client or newborn to a hospital. The birth center shall ensure that a copy of the prenatal record is available before and during labor. The birth center shall ensure that a copy of the complete record for a client or newborn is provided at the time of any transfer or referral.   
(b) Each medical record must include   
 	(1) an identification sheet that includes   
 		(A) the client's   
 		 	(i) name;   
 		 	(ii) medical record number;   
 		 	(iii) address on admission;   
 		 	(iv) date of birth; and   
 		 	(v) marital status;   
 		(B) the date of admission;   
 		(C) the name, address, and telephone number of a contact person;   
 		(D) proof that the birth center provided the client a complete orientation in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.403
(d);   
 		(E) a plan for payment for services;   
 		(F) the client's social, family, medical, reproductive, nutritional, and behavioral history;   
 		(G) the results of an initial physical examination;   
 		(H) the results of a risk assessment conducted upon admission in accordance with the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f);   
 		(I) evidence of appropriate referral for an ineligible client, including the report completed during initial screening;   
 		(J) the results of continuous periodic prenatal examination, including evaluation of risk factors and risk status in accordance with the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f); and   
 		(K) information regarding instruction and education provided, including nutritional counseling, changes in pregnancy, self-care in pregnancy, orientation to health records, understanding of findings on examinations and laboratory tests, preparation for labor, sibling preparation, and newborn assessment and care;   
 	(2) an order sheet that includes medication and treatment, signed by a midwife or another practitioner who ordered the medication or treatment;   
 	(3) notes entered by the clinical staff, including   
 		(A) an accurate record of care given;   
 		(B) a record of pertinent observations and responses to treatment of the client including psychosocial and physical manifestations;   
 		(C) an assessment at the time of admission;   
 		(D) a discharge plan;   
 		(E) the name, dosage, and time of administration of a medication or treatment, the route of administration and site of injection of a medication if other than by oral administration, the client's or newborn's response, and the signature of the person who administered the medication or treatment;   
 		(F) documentation that initial bloodspot screening was completed for the newborn;   
 		(G) documentation on admission of the client's vital signs, including temperature, pulse, respiration, and blood pressure;   
 		(H) documentation of the client's vital signs at least every four hours during the latent phase of labor;   
 		(I) documentation of any change in vital signs in the presence of risk factors, including rupture of membranes and borderline blood pressure;   
 		(J) documentation on admission of uterine contractions;   
 		(K) documentation of fetal heart tones on admission and periodically during the latent phase of labor;   
 		(L) documentation of fetal heart tones at least every 30 minutes during the active phase of labor;   
 		(M) documentation of fetal heart tones at least every 5 to 15 minutes when pushing is occurring;   
 		(N) documentation of fetal heart tones after rupture of membranes;   
 		(O) documentation of the client's vital signs within the first hour after delivery;   
 		(P) documentation of the newborn's vital signs, including tone color, within the first hour after delivery; and   
 		(Q) documentation of at least one additional set of client and newborn vital signs before discharge from the birth center;   
 	(4) treatments, consultations, and laboratory reports;   
 	(5) informed consent forms signed by the client and midwife;   
 	(6) monitoring of progress in labor with ongoing assessment of client and fetal reaction to the process of labor;   
 	(7) the delivery record;   
 	(8) the record of a neonatal physical examination, including Apgar scores, client and newborn interaction, prophylactic procedures, accommodation of the newborn to extrauterine life, and blood glucose if clinically indicated;   
 	(9) any consultation regarding referral and transfer for any client or neonatal problem that elevates risk status under the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f);   
 	(10) evidence of screening for gram positive Group B   Streptococcus by an approved laboratory, Group B   Streptococcus treatment as necessary, information provided to the client regarding Group B   Streptococcus, and monitoring after delivery of each newborn born to a client who tests positive for Group B   Streptococcus or to a client with unknown status;   
 	(11) ongoing physical assessment of the client and newborn during recovery;   
 	(12) a summary of the progress of labor;   
 	(13) a discharge summary for the client and the newborn;   
 	(14) a plan for newborn health supervision, completion of the initial bloodspot screening, and required follow-up screening, including the provision for newborn hearing screening; and   
 	(15) follow-up postpartum evaluation of the client, counseling for family planning, and other services.   
(c) The birth center shall maintain procedures to protect the information in medical records from loss, defacement, tampering, or access by unauthorized persons.   
(d) The birth center shall index and file records using a uniform system that allows for efficient retrieval according to a single identifying number for each client.   
(e) A transfer summary, signed by the midwife or collaborating physician, must accompany the client or newborn if the client or newborn is transferred to a hospital. The transfer summary must include essential information regarding the client's or newborn's diagnosis, condition, medications, treatments, dietary requirements, known allergies, and treatment plan.   
(f) The birth center shall establish and maintain a system for periodic review of the birth center's record-keeping system and its policies and procedures for the maintenance, storage, retrieval, and retirement of client and newborn records.   
(g) The birth center shall appoint an individual who is a member of the clinical or support staff to be responsible for the processing, maintenance, and storage of records, and who will ensure that access to records is limited to persons authorized to review those records.   
(h) The birth center shall retain and preserve records that relate directly to the care and treatment of a client or newborn for at least seven years after discharge. However, the records of a client who is under 19 years of age must be kept until at least two years after the client has reached 19 years of age or until seven years after discharge, whichever is longer. The birth center shall retain and preserve records consisting of x-ray film for at least five years.
7 AAC 12.430.  Equipment and supplies.
(a) A birth center shall ensure that sufficient supplies and equipment are maintained in a convenient area and immediately available for the care of maternal clients and newborns. Supplies and equipment must include   
 	(1) an emergency cart or tray for the client that   
 		(A) is equipped to assist the staff in carrying out the birth center's written emergency procedures;   
 		(B) is kept secure from unauthorized access;   
 		(C) is readily accessible in an emergency; and   
 		(D) includes a written log of routine maintenance for readiness;   
 	(2) an emergency cart or tray for the newborn that   
 		(A) is equipped to assist the staff in carrying out the birth center's written emergency procedures;   
 		(B) is kept secure from unauthorized access;   
 		(C) is readily accessible in an emergency; and   
 		(D) includes a written log of routine maintenance for readiness;   
 	(3) properly maintained equipment for the routine care of clients and newborns, including   
 		(A) a bed suitable for labor, birth, and recovery;   
 		(B) at least 30 minutes' supply of oxygen with flow meters and appropriate-sized masks or the equivalent for the client and the newborn; if a portable oxygen tank is used, the tank must be readily accessible and secure to prevent tipping;   
 		(C) wall-mounted or mechanical suction and bulb suction;   
 		(D) bag valve mask (BVM) resuscitators and oral airways appropriate for the client and the newborn;   
 		(E) laryngoscopes and endotracheal tubes appropriate for the newborn;   
 		(F) firm surfaces suitable for client and newborn resuscitation;   
 		(G) fetal monitoring equipment, including a fetoscope or Doppler fetal heart monitor;   
 		(H) equipment for monitoring and maintaining the optimum body temperature of the newborn, including a heat source appropriate for use in newborn warming, examination, or resuscitation;   
 		(I) a transfer incubator or isolette or demonstrated capability of ready access to a transfer incubator or isolette; the incubator or isolette must be equipped with a heat source that is appropriate for newborns, and that measures and maintains normal body temperature;   
 		(J) a clock with a sweep second hand;   
 		(K) a sterilizer or demonstration of sterilizing capability;   
 		(L) blood pressure equipment with an appropriate range of cuffs;   
 		(M) thermometers;   
 		(N) intravenous equipment;   
 		(O) sterile suturing equipment and instruments for episiotomy repair and suturing of lacerations;   
 		(P) adjustable examination lights; and   
 		(Q) closed or covered containers for soiled linen and waste materials;   
 	(4) properly maintained accessory equipment, including   
 		(A) conveniently placed telephones;   
 		(B) portable lighting;   
 		(C) kitchen equipment of the type typically found in a private home, for light refreshment; and   
 		(D) laundry equipment of the type typically found in a private home, or contracted laundry services;   
 	(5) an inventory of medications, intravenous medications, and intravenous fluids for routine and emergency treatment, sufficient for the number of clients registered for care; the inventory must include, at a minimum, the medications listed in 
12 AAC 14.570
;   
 	(6) routine monitoring of the shelf life of medications and intravenous fluids; and   
 	(7) a sufficient inventory of disposable supplies, including needles, suturing supplies, and prescription pads; the birth center shall ensure that these supplies are stored and disposed of appropriately.   
(b) Equipment must be maintained in a clean, safe, and operable condition.   
(c) Supplies must be maintained and stored in a clean environment.
7 AAC 12.435.  Physical environment.
(a) A birth center must have at least one birth room that is adequate to provide for the equipment, staff, supplies, and emergency procedures required for the physical and emotional care of a client, her support person, and the newborn during birth, labor, and the recovery period. A birth room must   
 	(1) be located so as to provide unimpeded, rapid access to an exit of the building that opens to an area that will accommodate an emergency transportation vehicle;   
 	(2) have a minimum room area, exclusive of a toilet room, closet, locker, wardrobe, alcove, or vestibule, of 100 square feet in a single-bed room, and 80 square feet for each bed in a multi-bed room;   
 	(3) have adequate fixed or portable work surface areas; and   
 	(4) have a toilet and lavatory in its vicinity.   
(b) A birth center must have available for its clients   
 	(1) one shower for every six clients;   
 	(2) one toilet and lavatory for every six clients;   
 	(3) secure storage for a client's personal belongings and valuables; and   
 	(4) visual privacy for each client and her support person.   
(c) All floor and wall surfaces, water closets, lavatories, tubs, and showers must be kept clean and in good condition.   
(d) A birth center must provide safe emergency lighting if it does not have automatic emergency lighting.   
(e) All sewage, garbage, refuse, and liquid waste must be collected and disposed of in a manner to prevent the creation of an unsafe or unsanitary condition.   
(f) A birth center must have an electric or gas refrigerator capable of maintaining a temperature of 45� Fahrenheit or lower.   
(g) Vehicle parking must be provided at the ratio of two spaces for each birth room plus sufficient parking spaces to accommodate the maximum number of staff on duty at one time. On-street parking, if available, may be considered as meeting part of this requirement. Exceptions may be made with approval of the department for a center located in an area with a high population density if adequate public parking is available or if the center is accessible to a public transportation system.   
(h) The birth center must protect clients, their families, and others from any environmental hazard that might cause injury, including injury from a fall, electrical shock, poisoning, or burns. The birth center shall ensure that   
 	(1) electrical outlets are covered;   
 	(2) any toys provided by the birth center are safe for the children who will play with them;   
 	(3) access by children to stairways is prevented;   
 	(4) storage cabinets are kept locked;   
 	(5) walkways, parking lots, and outside play areas are safe;   
 	(6) ventilation and lighting are adequate;   
 	(7) privacy is provided for clients and their families;   
 	(8) clients, their families, and birth center personnel have adequate space, including space allotted for   
 		(A) business operations;   
 		(B) secure medical records storage;   
 		(C) a waiting room and reception area;   
 		(D) examination rooms;   
 		(E) family rooms and play areas for children;   
 		(F) bath and toilet facilities;   
 		(G) birth rooms;   
 		(H) staff areas;   
 		(I) utility and work areas;   
 		(J) storage;   
 		(K) emergency care areas;   
 		(L) office and laboratory areas; and   
 		(M) coats, boots, and umbrellas.   
(i) The birth center must provide   
 	(1) adequate handwashing facilities for clients, their families, and birth center personnel;   
 	(2) adequate and sanitary trash storage;   
 	(3) for the safe storage and removal of waste, including biomedical waste; in this paragraph, "biomedical waste" means any solid or liquid waste that may present a threat of infection to humans, including non-liquid human tissue and body parts, discarded sharps, human blood, human blood products, and any waste that contains human disease-causing agents or body fluids; and   
 	(4) equipment, or a contract, for snow removal.
7 AAC 12.437.  Physical plant.
(a) Any renovation, expansion, or new construction must comply with  
 	(1) the requirements of   Guidelines for Design and Construction of Hospital and Health Care Facilities, American Institute of Architects, 2001 edition, secs. 1 - 6 and sec. 9, adopted by reference;   
 	(2) 
7 AAC 09.010
 - 
7 AAC 09.170
;   
 	(3) 
AS 18.60.580
 - 18.60.660; and   
 	(4) 
AS 18.60.705
 - 18.60.740.   
(b) A birth center must comply with municipal fire safety regulations, with 
13 AAC 50
 - 
13 AAC 55
, and with the following National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards:   
 	(1) NFPA 99: Standard for Health Care Facilities 2005 edition, adopted by reference;   
 	(2) NFPA 101: Life Safety Code, 2000 edition, adopted by reference;  
 	(3) NFPA 10: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2002 edition, adopted by reference.   
(c) A birth center must specify in writing the maximum allowable water temperature at an outlet for client bathing, showering, and washing, and a safety factor expressed in minutes required to reduce water temperature for particular client sensitivity due to illness or medication.   
(d) The department may waive compliance with, or grant a variance from, a requirement in this section if the commissioner determines that an equivalent alternative is provided and the safety and well-being of clients is assured. If a birth center wishes to obtain a waiver or variance, its governing body must apply in writing to the commissioner and must include in the application   
 	(1) the justification for the waiver;   
 	(2) an explanation of the reasons why the particular requirement cannot be satisfied;   
 	(3) a description of the equivalent alternative proposed; and   
 	(4) if the application for waiver involves fire safety or other municipal or state requirements, evidence that it has been reviewed by the appropriate municipal or state authorities.
7 AAC 12.440.  Applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.442.  Risk management.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.445.  Definitions.
Repealed 11/19/83.
7 AAC 12.446.  Determination of low-risk maternal client.
For purposes of 
7 AAC 12.401
 - 
7 AAC 12.449
, the department will consider a woman who seeks the services of a free-standing birth center to be a low-risk maternal client if, based on physical examinations and risk assessments conducted in accordance with the standards developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f), the woman   
 	(1) is in general good health with uncomplicated prenatal care;   
 	(2) is 16 years of age or older;   
 	(3) has documented evidence of ongoing prenatal care or meets the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.403
(h)(1) - (3);   
 	(4) has no major medical problems;   
 	(5) has no previous significant obstetrical complications that are likely to recur;   
 	(6) has gestation that is   
 		(A) greater than or equal to 37 weeks at the onset of labor; and   
 		(B) less than or equal to 42 weeks;   
 	(7) has never had uterine wall surgery, including a previous cesarean section;   
 	(8) is appropriate for a setting where anesthesia is limited to local anesthesia as described in 
7 AAC 12.403
(n);   
 	(9) during labor, is progressing normally; and   
 	(10) has no signs or symptoms that cannot be remedied by normal midwifery intervention before labor, and has no signs or symptoms during labor, of   
 		(A) active herpes genitalis;   
 		(B) chronic or significant hypertension; in this subparagraph, "significant hypertension" means a sustained blood pressure in excess of 140/90, or the presence of chronic hypertension that has been diagnosed before pregnancy;   
 		(C) placenta previa or abruption;   
 		(D) chorioamnionitis;   
 		(E) anemia or thrombocytopenia;   
 		(F) nonreassuring fetal heart tones; in this subparagraph, "nonreassuring fetal heart tones" means that, based on assessment of fetal heart tones, the physician or midwife has lost confidence regarding, or is unable to alleviate doubts about, fetal condition;   
 		(G) thick fetal meconium;   
 		(H) breech presentation;   
 		(I) prolonged ruptured membranes in the absence of active labor; in this subparagraph, "prolonged" means that the membranes have been ruptured or leaking for 24 hours or longer;   
 		(J) toxemia;   
 		(K) poly-hydramnios or oligo-hydramnios;   
 		(L) intrauterine growth retardation;   
 		(M) multiple gestation;   
 		(N) intrauterine fetal malformation;   
 		(O) insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or uncontrolled gestational diabetes;   
 		(P) immunosuppressive disorder;   
 		(Q) alcoholism or inappropriate use of controlled substances, including those obtained by prescription;   
 		(R) compromised fetal status according to antepartum testing; or   
 		(S) abnormal labor pattern as defined in the birth center's risk assessment tool developed under 
7 AAC 12.403
(f) and its policy and procedure manual.
7 AAC 12.449.  Definitions.
In 
7 AAC 12.401
 - 
7 AAC 12.449
, unless the context requires otherwise,   
 	(1) "active labor" has the meaning given "active phase" in this section;   
 	(2) "active phase" means the second phase in the first stage of labor when contractions are regular and occurring frequently, and the cervix is dilating from four centimeters to complete dilation of 10 centimeters with 100 percent effacement;   
 	(3) "all stages of labor" means the progression from the first through the third stage of labor;   
 	(4) "birth center" means free-standing birth center;   
 	(5) "certified nurse midwife" means a person who is authorized to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse under 
12 AAC 44.400
 and who is certified to practice midwifery by a national certification body recognized under 
12 AAC 44.420
 and 
12 AAC 44.430
;   
 	(6) "client" means a woman who receives care and services provided by a birth center during pregnancy, and during childbirth and recovery;   
 	(7) "clinical staff" means each individual associated with a birth center who is a practitioner or a midwife;   
 	(8) "direct-entry midwife" means   
 		(A) a person who is certified to practice midwifery under 
12 AAC 14.100
 - 
12 AAC 14.120
; or   
 		(B) an apprentice who meets the requirements of 
12 AAC 14.130
 and is supervised as provided under 
12 AAC 14.220
;   
 	(9) "effacement" means the gradual thinning, shortening, softening, and drawing up of the cervix as it dilates in preparation for birth; this process is measured in percentages, with 100 percent indicating total effacement;   
 	(10) "emergency" means a situation that presents an immediate threat to the health or safety of a client, fetus, or newborn;   
 	(11) "family" means   
 		(A) individuals related to a client by blood, marriage, or court decree; and   
 		(B) one or more individuals who have a significant personal relationship with a client and who have been designated, by mutual agreement between each individual and the client, as members of the client's family;   
 	(12) "first stage of labor" means the stage of labor that   
 		(A) begins when widely spaced uterine contractions of sufficient frequency, intensity, and duration are attained to bring about effacement of the cervix; and   
 		(B) ends when the cervix is fully dilated, at about 10 centimeters, to allow passage of the fetal head;   
 	(13) "latent phase" means early labor and is the first phase in the first stage of labor when contractions are irregular and the cervix is beginning to efface and dilate from zero to three centimeters;   
 	(14) "low-risk maternal client" means a client considered a low-risk maternal client under 
7 AAC 12.446
;   
 	(15) "midwife" has the meaning given in 
7 AAC 12.990
;   
 	(16) "midwifery services" means providing necessary supervision, health care, and education to women during pregnancy, labor, and the postpartum period, conducting deliveries on the midwife's own responsibility, and providing immediate postpartum care of the newborn; "midwifery services" includes preventative measures, the identification of physical, social, and emotional needs of the newborn and the woman, and arranging for consultation, referral, and continued involvement when the care required extends beyond the abilities of the midwife, and the execution of emergency measures in the absence of medical assistance,   
 		(A) as specified in 
AS 08.65
 and 
12 AAC 14
, if the midwife is a direct-entry midwife; or   
 		(B) within the midwife's authorized scope of practice, if the midwife is a certified nurse midwife;   
 	(17) "practitioner" has the meaning given in 
7 AAC 12.990
;   
 	(18) "second stage of labor" means the stage of labor that begins when dilatation of the cervix is complete, and ends with delivery of the fetus;   
 	(19) "service area" means the geographical area in which a birth center regularly provides services;   
 	(20) "support person" means a relative or friend who provides emotional support to a client;   
 	(21) "support staff" means each individual associated with a birth center who is not a practitioner and who   
 		(A) performs administrative, clerical, or maintenance duties; or   
 		(B) assists clinical staff in providing services to the client or newborn, including acting as a birthing coach or doula; in this subparagraph, "doula" means an individual who assists a client during labor and provides support to the client, the newborn, and the client's family after childbirth;   
 	(22) "telemedicine" means the practice of health care delivery, evaluation, diagnosis, consultation, or treatment, using the transfer of medical data through audio, video, or data communications that are engaged in over two or more locations between providers who are physically separated from the patient or from each other;   
 	(23) "third stage of labor" means the stage of labor that begins immediately after delivery of the fetus, and ends with delivery of the placenta and fetal membranes.
Article 11
 Frontier Extended Stay Clinics
7 AAC 12.450.  Determination of a frontier extended stay clinic.
(a) The department will consider a rural health clinic, including a community health center and a federally qualified health center, to be a frontier extended stay clinic subject to the applicable requirements of this chapter if the department finds that the clinic is a permanent entity that is   
 	(1) located   
 		(A) at least 75 miles by public highway from the nearest hospital; or   
 		(B) in an area where the nearest hospital is inaccessible by public highway; and   
 	(2) capable of providing care and extended stay services for individuals who   
 		(A) are seriously ill, critically ill, or seriously injured and who cannot be transferred to a general acute care hospital, rural primary care hospital, or critical access hospital because of adverse weather conditions, unavailability of a transport vehicle, or another similar unavoidable circumstance;   
 		(B) are seriously ill, critically ill, or seriously injured and require transfer to a general acute care hospital, rural primary care hospital, or critical access hospital but exercise the right, against the medical advice of the attending practitioner, not to be transferred, and elect to receive extended stay services appropriate to manage the individual's illness or injuries to the extent possible within the clinic's capability; or   
 		(C) are not in obvious need of medical transport, but require an extended stay for monitoring and observation.   
(b) For purposes of this section, the annual average length of stay for individuals requiring extended stay may not exceed 48 hours.
7 AAC 12.453.  Scope of service.
(a) In addition to complying with the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.600
(a) and (h), a frontier extended stay clinic must comply with 
7 AAC 12.450
 - 
7 AAC 12.490
.   
(b) A frontier extended stay clinic must provide medical, radiological, laboratory, extended stay, and emergency services. The clinic must have the staff and resources necessary to provide the care and services offered.   
(c) The clinic may provide care and services for   
 	(1) an extended stay described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(A) for a patient awaiting requested medical transport to a general acute care hospital, rural primary care hospital, or critical access hospital; or   
 	(2) a patient who elects to receive extended stay services as described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(B).   
(d) The clinic may provide care and services for an extended stay for monitoring and observation described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(C) if   
 	(1) there is a reasonable expectation that the patient will show significant improvement within 24 hours and that care will be completed within 48 hours;   
 	(2) the clinic can manage common complications associated with the patient's medical condition and presenting problems;   
 	(3) appropriate medical consultation is available to the clinic on site or by telephone; and   
 	(4) a contingency plan is in place for appropriate medical transport to a general acute care hospital, rural primary care hospital, or critical access hospital if necessary.   
(e) The clinic must have an agreement with a general acute care hospital, a rural primary care hospital, or a critical access hospital for transfer of patients described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(A) and (d) of this section who require medical or emergency care beyond the scope of the clinic's ability or license. If the agreement is not in writing, the clinic must provide evidence satisfactory to the department that patients referred by the clinic are being accepted and treated by the hospital.
7 AAC 12.457.  Additional licensure requirements for frontier extended stay clinics.
(a) In addition to complying with the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.610
, an individual seeking to operate a frontier extended stay clinic must provide, as part of the application for a license,   
 	(1) the name of each individual with ownership or control of the clinic;   
 	(2) a description of the geographic service area to be served;   
 	(3) the applicant's plan for the delivery of health services within the service area;   
 	(4) the applicant's plan for staffing when a patient is admitted for care or services;   
 	(5) an emergency services plan that coordinates the provision of emergency medical services in the service area;   
 	(6) a plan that demonstrates how each physician's responsibilities will be accomplished, including record reviews, policy reviews, review of services provided, supervision, and medical direction;   
 	(7) a description of the applicant's volume capacity;   
 	(8) a description of the volume capacity of other related health care resources within the service area; and   
 	(9) the distance and travel time to the nearest hospital and other health care resources within the service area.   
(b) A licensee must provide, as part of an application for license renewal,   
 	(1) the number of patients admitted during the previous 12 months for extended stay, including   
 		(A) the number of patients admitted for an extended stay described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(A);   
 		(B) the number of patients admitted for an extended stay described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(B);   
 		(C) the number of patients admitted for monitoring and observation described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2)(C); and   
 		(D) the average length of stay for each category set out in (A) - (C) of this paragraph; and   
 	(2) the plan required under (a)(6) of this section, updated to reflect any changes since the initial plan was submitted.
7 AAC 12.460.  Periodic program evaluation and quality assurance.
(a) At least once each year, a frontier extended stay clinic must evaluate, or arrange for evaluation of, its total program to determine whether   
 	(1) the utilization of services was appropriate;   
 	(2) established policies were followed; and   
 	(3) any changes are needed.   
(b) The evaluation required under (a) of this section must include review of   
 	(1) the utilization of clinic services, including, at a minimum, the number of patients served, the services provided, and the number of patients who received each service;   
 	(2) all patient care services and other services affecting patient health and safety; and   
 	(3) the clinic's health care policies.   
(c) The clinic must have an effective quality assurance program to evaluate the quality and appropriateness of diagnoses and treatment provided at the clinic and of treatment outcomes. The quality assurance program must require that   
 	(1) at regular intervals, no less than once each year, a physician and a mid-level practitioner, either separately or together, review the records for all patients admitted for an extended stay during the review period, and the records selected under (2) of this subsection; the review under this paragraph must include an evaluation of the appropriateness of the diagnoses and treatment provided, treatment outcomes, and the accuracy of the records; the physician shall document the review and any recommendations; the clinic must provide documentation of the review to the department upon request;   
 	(2) for the review described in (1) of this subsection, the clinic develop policies and procedures for the random sampling of medical records for each type of service provided during the review period in addition to extended stay services; this sampling must include   
 		(A) at least 25 of every 1,000 encounters if the number of records for extended stay patients is less than 2.5 percent of the total encounters during the review period; or   
 		(B) at least 10 of every 1,000 encounters if the number of records for extended stay patients is 2.5 percent or more of the total encounters during the review period;   
 	(3) the physician and the mid-level practitioner conducting a review under this subsection be on the clinic's staff or under contract with the clinic; and   
 	(4) the clinic staff, after each evaluation   
 		(A) consider the findings and any recommendations of the medical staff and take corrective action if necessary; and   
 		(B) document the outcome of any corrective action.
7 AAC 12.465.  Medical staff.
(a) A frontier extended stay clinic must have the medical staff necessary to provide the care and services required in 
7 AAC 12.453
.   
(b) The medical staff shall develop, for approval by the governing body of the clinic, bylaws and rules that provide for   
 	(1) eligibility for medical staff membership;   
 	(2) the biennial recommendation by the medical staff regarding the credentialing and privileges of each member of the medical staff, including establishing standards for   
 		(A) assessing the training, experience, and competence of medical staff;   
 		(B) a formal process that includes   
 		 	(i) querying the National Practitioner Data Bank; and   
 		 	(ii) verifying that medical staff meet professional licensing requirements;   
 		(C) a delineation of privileges as authorized by the governing body, including verification of education and training related to the privileges requested and to the level of care that will be provided;   
 		(D) the inclusion of quality assurance findings in ongoing credentialing of medical staff; and   
 		(E) the assurance of participation in continuing professional education;   
 	(3) quality assurance under 
7 AAC 12.460
;   
 	(4) medical records retention and protection under 
7 AAC 12.483
;   
 	(5) infection control;   
 	(6) pharmacy and therapeutics, including   
 		(A) development and maintenance of a formulary of drugs; and   
 		(B) development and implementation of procedures for the safe and effective control, storage, dispensing, and administration of prescribed drugs, chemicals, and biologicals; and   
 	(7) utilization review.   
(c) The medical staff shall   
 	(1) ensure that a physician or a mid-level practitioner with training or experience in emergency care is, on a 24-hour-per-day basis,   
 		(A) on call;   
 		(B) immediately available by telephone or radio contact; and   
 		(C) able to be on site at the frontier extended stay clinic within 30 minutes after an emergency contact;   
 	(2) ensure that a mid-level practitioner is available on site to provide patient care services at least 60 percent of the time during the clinic's normal hours of operation, or a minimum of 32 hours a week, whichever is less;   
 	(3) require that an order by a practitioner, including a telephonic or other verbal order, be reduced to writing and authenticated within three days after the order was given; the authentication must be signed and dated by the practitioner who gave the verbal order;   
 	(4) require that a physician approve each standing order;   
 	(5) establish procedures for circumstances in which consultation, referral, or transfer is required;   
 	(6) ensure that the review required under 
7 AAC 12.460
(c)(1) is conducted at regular intervals, at least annually, and that the clinic maintains accurate medical records;   
 	(7) establish procedures for selection and supervision of mid-level practitioners; and   
 	(8) establish procedures for the annual review of policies and procedures, including clinical, administrative, and fiscal policies and procedures, by a group consisting, at a minimum, of a physician, a mid-level practitioner, and one person who is not an employee of the clinic.   
(d) A physician shall be on site for sufficient periods of time, at least once in every three-month period, except in extraordinary circumstances, to provide the medical direction, medical care services, consultation, and supervision described in this section. Any extraordinary circumstance must be documented in the clinic's records. A site visit by a physician is not required if no patients have been treated since the last time a physician made a site visit. The clinic must   
 	(1) ensure that, in addition to the site visits required by this subsection, a physician will be   
 		(A) available 24 hours a day through direct radio or telephone communication for consultation, assistance with medical emergencies, or patient referral; and   
 		(B) in contact with the clinic telephonically or through telemedicine at least once in every two-week period;   
 	(2) demonstrate sufficient staffing during periods the physician is not onsite; and   
 	(3) ensure that the physician adheres to the plan submitted under 
7 AAC 12.457
(a)(6).   
(e) A physician shall   
 	(1) provide medical direction, consultation, and medical supervision regarding the clinic's health care activities;   
 	(2) at regular intervals, no less than once each year, participate with a mid-level practitioner member of the clinic staff, either separately or together, in   
 		(A) developing, executing, and reviewing the clinic's written policies; and   
 		(B) the review of services provided to patients through the periodic program evaluation under 
7 AAC 12.460
(c), unless that review is conducted under contract;   
 	(3) review at least quarterly the clinic's patient records;   
 	(4) provide medical orders and medical care services to the clinic's patients; and   
 	(5) at least quarterly, sign the records of patients cared for by a mid-level practitioner.   
(f) The onsite medical staff of a frontier extended stay clinic may consist exclusively of one or more mid-level practitioners if   
 	(1) the mid-level practitioners are subject to the oversight of a physician who is also a member of the clinic's medical staff, even though the physician might not be on site, if   
 		(A) that physician is   
 		 	(i) notified by a mid-level practitioner when a patient is admitted for extended stay; and   
 		 	(ii) available 24 hours per day through direct radio or telephone communication for consultation, assistance with medical emergencies, or patient referral; and   
 		(B) each contact with the physician is documented;   
 	(2) each mid-level practitioner participates   
 		(A) in the development, execution, and periodic review of the written policies governing the services provided by the clinic; and   
 		(B) in the periodic review of the medical records of patients with a physician as described in 
7 AAC 12.460
(c)(1), unless that review is conducted under contract; and   
 	(3) each mid-level practitioner performs the following functions when the functions are not performed by a physician:   
 		(A) provide services in accordance with the clinic's policies;   
 		(B) arrange for, or refer patients to, needed services that cannot be furnished at the clinic;   
 		(C) assure that adequate patient health records are maintained and transferred as required if patients are referred or services are arranged under (B) of this paragraph.   
(g) A physician or a mid-level practitioner member of the staff may be an owner or employee of the clinic, or may be under contract or agreement with the clinic to carry out the responsibilities described in this section and in 
7 AAC 12.470
.
7 AAC 12.470.  Personnel and staffing.
(a) In addition to complying with the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.660
(c), a frontier extended stay clinic must ensure that mid-level practitioners are involved in the orientation and in-service education program for patient care personnel. The in-service education program must be designed to support the services provided by the clinic and the various levels of staffing required at the clinic.   
(b) The clinic must consider the clinic staff availability when determining a patient's eligibility for admission for extended stay. A physician, a physician assistant, an advanced practice registered nurse, a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a primary community health aide, or an emergency medical technician must be on duty whenever the clinic has one or more extended stay patients. The number of clinic staff and the level of training required to provide treatment to an extended stay patient is at the discretion of the clinic and the practitioner involved in the patient's care, after determining what is required to meet the patient's needs.   
(c) The clinic must ensure that when a patient is admitted to the clinic for extended stay services by a mid-level practitioner, a physician on the clinic's staff is notified of the admission.   
(d) The clinic must have the staff necessary to provide the care and services required in 
7 AAC 12.453
.   
(e) The clinic staff may also include personnel who provide support services, including bookkeeping, clerical, laundry, and housekeeping services.
7 AAC 12.473.  Ancillary services.
(a) A frontier extended stay clinic must have ancillary services that include food, laundry, and housekeeping services in accordance with this section.   
(b) The clinic must maintain lavatories for handwashing, with hot and cold running water, soap, and disposable towels, conveniently located in the food preparation area.   
(c) A clinic for which a food service permit is required by the Department of Environmental Conservation must meet the applicable requirements of 
18 AAC 31
. A clinic that is exempt from the requirements of 
18 AAC 31
 must maintain sanitary facilities as applicable for the proper care, storage, refrigeration, and preparation of food. The clinic must ensure that   
 	(1) for purposes of 
AS 17.20.020
, any food served to extended stay patients is not adulterated; and   
 	(2) fruits and vegetables are thoroughly washed with potable water before use.   
(d) If food is provided by an outside food establishment, the clinic shall ensure that the requirements of (c)(1) of this section are met.   
(e) If prepackaged food is used, preparation must be as directed by the manufacturer.   
(f) The clinic must develop and implement written procedures for the handling, processing, storage, and transportation of linens in a manner that will prevent the spread of infection and assure the maintenance of clean linens.  
(g) The clinic shall ensure that laundry equipment is maintained in a sanitary manner and in good repair.   
(h) In this section,   
 	(1) "food establishment" has the meaning given in 
18 AAC 31.990
; the definition of "food establishment" in 
18 AAC 31.990
, as revised as of March 1, 2006, and as amended from time to time, is adopted by reference;   
 	(2) "prepackaged" has the meaning given in 
18 AAC 31.990
; the definition of "prepackaged" in 
18 AAC 31.990
, as revised as of March 1, 2006, and as amended from time to time, is adopted by reference.
7 AAC 12.475.  Drugs, chemicals, and biologicals.
(a) A frontier extended stay clinic that dispenses drugs, chemicals, and biologicals must   
 	(1) employ a pharmacist on a regular or consultant basis;   
 	(2) procure and maintain a sufficient quantity of drugs, chemicals, and biologicals, consistent with the formulary developed and approved under 
7 AAC 12.465
(b)(6), to meet patient needs, including those drugs, chemicals, and biologicals listed in 
7 AAC 12.485
(c)(1);   
 	(3) inventory emergency drugs, chemicals, and biologicals at least every 30 days and restock, as necessary;   
 	(4) dispose of drugs, chemicals, and biologicals that have been discontinued or have expired;   
 	(5) ensure that only authorized staff have access to the clinic's stock of drugs, chemicals, and biologicals;   
 	(6) ensure that drugs, chemicals, and biologicals are properly labeled regarding their content and strength;   
 	(7) ensure that drugs, chemicals, and biologicals requiring refrigeration are stored separate from food; and   
 	(8) document and evaluate prescribed drug distribution errors to   
 		(A) prevent reoccurrence; and   
 		(B) ensure the accuracy and adequacy of the clinic's prescribed drug distribution system.   
(b) A standing order for a prescribed drug must specify the circumstances for administration, dosage, route, duration, and frequency of administration. The order must be reviewed annually and, if necessary, renewed. When a standing order is implemented for a specific patient, the person who prescribed the order must date and sign the order, and enter it into the patient's record within three days.   
(c) A verbal order for a prescribed drug may be given only to an individual who is authorized by the clinic's medical staff to receive orders given by a person legally authorized to prescribe drugs. An individual who receives a verbal order must promptly record the order in the patient's medical record, identify the name of the person who prescribed the order, and sign the record.   
(d) Before allowing a patient to leave or be transferred out of the clinic, the clinic must ensure that each prescribed drug supplied by the clinic is properly labeled and prepared in accordance with state and federal law for use outside of the clinic.
7 AAC 12.477.  Radiological service.
(a) Radiology services furnished at a frontier extended stay clinic must be provided as direct services by clinic staff who have been trained, and are competent, in the proper and safe use of radiological equipment.   
(b) Radiological services may be performed only upon the order of the attending physician or practitioner.   
(c) If an x-ray examination is to be provided to a patient, a request by the attending physician or practitioner for the examination must contain a diagnosis or a tentative diagnosis, or a concise statement of the reasons for the x-ray examination.   
(d) A report of a radiological examination must be filed in the patient's medical record and maintained in the radiology unit.   
(e) The clinic must maintain patient x-rays for at least five years.   
(f) The clinic must ensure that individuals who are employed or involved in providing radiological services or who may be exposed to radiation wear devices that monitor radiation exposure.   
(g) The clinic must keep records identifying employees who have been exposed to radiation and the amount of exposure for each employee.   
(h) A clinic that uses x-ray equipment must ensure that the equipment is calibrated, used, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The clinic must document calibration and maintenance.
7 AAC 12.480.  Laboratory service.
A frontier extended stay clinic must have an approved laboratory and provide laboratory services essential to the immediate diagnosis and treatment of patients. The clinic must comply with the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.790
 - 
7 AAC 12.850
. The services provided must at a minimum include  
 	(1) chemical examination of urine by stick or tablet method or both, including urine ketones;   
 	(2) hemoglobin or hematocrit;   
 	(3) blood glucose;   
 	(4) electrolytes;   
 	(5) white blood count with differential;   
 	(6) cardiac enzymes;   
 	(7) liver function;   
 	(8) kidney function;   
 	(9) examination of stool specimens for occult blood;   
 	(10) pregnancy tests; and   
 	(11) primary culturing for transmittal to an approved laboratory; the clinic must collect the culture in the proper container for shipping to the approved laboratory for processing.
7 AAC 12.483.  Medical records.
(a) In addition to the applicable requirements of 
7 AAC 12.770
 (Medical Record Service), a frontier extended stay clinic must meet the requirements of this section.   
(b) The clinic must maintain its clinical record system in accordance with written policies and procedures, including policies and procedures governing the use and removal of records from the clinic and the conditions for release of information.   
(c) A designated member of the clinic staff shall maintain the records and ensure that they are completely and accurately documented, readily accessible, and systematically organized.   
(d) For each patient receiving health care services, the clinic shall maintain a record that includes, as applicable,   
 	(1) identification, including the patient's name, age, sex, and address;   
 	(2) evidence of informed consent, pertinent medical history, assessment of the health status and health care needs of the patient, and a brief summary of the episode and the initial disposition;   
 	(3) pertinent history of the patient's current condition;   
 	(4) the time and means by which the patient arrived, including by whom transported;   
 	(5) the diagnosis and treatment given;   
 	(6) reports of physical examinations, diagnostic and laboratory test results, and consultative findings;   
 	(7) the patient's condition on discharge or transfer;   
 	(8) physician's orders, reports of treatment and medication, and other pertinent information necessary to monitor the patient's progress;   
 	(9) final disposition, including instructions given to the patient or the patient's family regarding necessary follow-up care; and   
 	(10) the signature of each physician or other health care professional involved; for purposes of this paragraph, "health care professional" includes a physician or other practitioner, an emergency medical technician, a social worker, or a primary community health aide.
7 AAC 12.485.  Emergency services.
(a) A frontier extended stay clinic must provide emergency services necessary to meet the needs of its extended stay patients and outpatients.   
(b) Emergency services must be available 24 hours a day.   
(c) Equipment, supplies, drugs, chemicals, and biologicals used in treating emergency cases must be kept at the clinic and must be readily available. The items available must include, at a minimum,   
 	(1) drugs, chemicals, and biologicals commonly used in life-saving procedures, including analgesics, local anesthetics, antibiotics, anticonvulsants, antidotes and emetics, serums and toxoids, antiarrythmics, cardiac glycosides, antihypertensives, diuretics, and electrolytes and replacement solutions; and   
 	(2) equipment and supplies commonly used in life-saving procedures, including   
 		(A) airways;   
 		(B) endotracheal tubes;   
 		(C) bag valve mask (BVM) resuscitators;   
 		(D) oxygen;   
 		(E) tourniquets;   
 		(F) immobilization devices;   
 		(G) nasogastric tubes;   
 		(H) splints;   
 		(I) intravenous (IV) therapy supplies, including D5 normal, D5 quarter normal, and normal saline solutions or lactated ringers solutions;   
 		(J) central line venous access kits or their equivalent;   
 		(K) a suction machine;   
 		(L) a defibrillator;   
 		(M) a cardiac monitor;   
 		(N) chest tubes for pediatrics and adults;   
 		(O) assorted over the needle catheters; and   
 		(P) indwelling urinary catheters.   
(d) The clinic may not provide, directly or otherwise, services for the procurement, storage, or transfusion of blood.   
(e) In addition to complying with the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.465
(c), the clinic must ensure that, if not already on site, a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a primary community health aide, or an emergency medical technician is, on a 24-hour-a-day basis,   
 	(1) on call;   
 	(2) immediately available by telephone or radio contact; and   
 	(3) available to be on site within 30 minutes after an emergency contact.   
(f) The clinic must establish procedures, in coordination with emergency response systems in the area, under which a physician is immediately available by telephone or radio contact on a 24-hour-a-day basis to   
 	(1) receive emergency calls;   
 	(2) provide information on treatment of emergency patients; and   
 	(3) refer patients to appropriate locations for treatment.
7 AAC 12.487.  Physical plant.
(a) Any renovation, expansion, or new construction of a frontier extended stay clinic must comply with   
 	(1) 
AS 18.60.580
 - 18.60.660;   
 	(2) 
AS 18.60.705
 - 18.60.740;   
 	(3) the   International Building Code, as adopted by reference in, and revised under, 
13 AAC 50.020
; and   
 	(4) the   International Mechanical Code, as adopted by reference in, and revised under, 13 ACC 50.023.   
(b) A clinic must comply with   
 	(1) municipal fire safety regulations;   
 	(2) 
13 AAC 50
 - 
13 AAC 55
; and   
 	(3) applicable National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, as follows, which are adopted by reference:   
 		(A) NFPA 13: Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2002 edition;   
 		(B) NFPA 25: Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems, 2002 edition;   
 		(C) NFPA 10: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2002 edition;   
 		(D) NFPA 99: Standard for Health Care Facilities, 2005 edition;   
 		(E) NFPA 101: Life Safety Code, 2000 edition; if a waiver is issued by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for a requirement of NFPA 101, the waiver will be considered a waiver of that requirement for purposes of this paragraph.   
(c) The department may waive compliance with a requirement of this section if the commissioner determines that an equivalent alternative is provided and the safety and well-being of patients is assured. To obtain a waiver from the department, the owner or governing body of a clinic must apply in writing to the commissioner and must include in the application   
 	(1) justification for the waiver;   
 	(2) an explanation of why the particular requirement cannot be satisfied;   
 	(3) a description of the equivalent alternative proposed; and   
 	(4) if the application for waiver involves fire safety or other municipal or state requirements, evidence that it has been reviewed by each appropriate municipal or state authority.
7 AAC 12.490.  Definitions.
In 
7 AAC 12.450
 - 
7 AAC 12.490
, unless the context indicates otherwise,   
 	(1) "emergency medical technician" has the meaning given in 
AS 18.08.200
;   
 	(2) "extended stay" means a stay of four hours or longer described in 
7 AAC 12.450
(a)(2);   
 	(3) "food" means a raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or ingredient used or intended for use or sale, in whole or in part, for human consumption;   
 	(4) "frontier extended stay clinic" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;   
 	(5) "primary community health aide" has the meaning given in 
AS 18.28.100
;   
 	(6) "public highway" means a paved highway that is maintained year-round and open to the public for vehicular travel;   
 	(7) "service area" means the geographical area in which a frontier extended stay clinic regularly provides services to individuals;   
 	(8) "telemedicine" means the practice of health care delivery, evaluation, diagnosis, consultation, or treatment, using the transfer of medical data through audio, visual, or data communications that are engaged in over two or more locations between providers who are physically separated from the patient or from each other.
Article 12
 Home Health Agencies
7 AAC 12.500.  Scope.
A public or private entity that is primarily engaged in the provision of skilled nursing care and therapeutic services, but not the treatment of mental illness, in a patient's home is a home health agency, and must comply with 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
.
7 AAC 12.503.  Surveys.
(a) The department will survey each home health agency and each subunit of a home health agency at least annually to determine compliance with 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
.   
(b) All records of a home health agency and its subunits must be available for inspection during regular business hours to representatives of the department without prior notice of the inspection.   
(c) The department will review complaints made against a home health agency.
7 AAC 12.505.  Home health agency services.
(a) A home health agency must provide skilled nursing services and at least one of the following additional services:   
 	(1) physical therapy;   
 	(2) occupational therapy;   
 	(3) speech therapy; or   
 	(4) home health aide services.   
(b) A home health agency may provide additional services designed to maintain, improve, or restore a physical or mental condition. Additional services must be provided in accordance with generally accepted professional standards and identified in a plan of care established under 
7 AAC 12.513
. Additional services may include   
 	(1) nursing care under the supervision of a registered nurse;   
 	(2) physical, occupational, speech, or respiratory therapy;   
 	(3) medical social services;   
 	(4) nutrition counseling;   
 	(5) home health aide services;   
 	(6) personal care services; and   
 	(7) medical supplies, other than drugs and biologicals, and the use of medical appliances.
7 AAC 12.507.  Governing body.
(a) A home health agency must be organized under a governing body that assumes full legal authority and fiscal responsibility for the conduct of the agency.   
(b) The governing body shall   
 	(1) appoint a qualified administrator and regularly monitor the performance of the administrator;   
 	(2) appoint a professional advisory committee as required under 
7 AAC 12.508
;   
 	(3) adopt written by-laws, policies, and procedures;   
 	(4) provide adequate staff, equipment, and supplies for the agency;   
 	(5) cooperate in establishing a system by which to coordinate and provide continuity of care within the community; and   
 	(6) ensure an annual program evaluation and act upon the evaluation findings.   
(c) The governing body shall provide for systematic and effective communication between the governing body and the administrator of the home health agency.
7 AAC 12.508.  Professional advisory committee.
(a) The governing body of a home health agency shall appoint a professional advisory committee that meets as frequently as needed to advise and monitor the agency and report its findings to the governing body. The committee must consist of   
 	(1) the agency administrator;   
 	(2) a physician;   
 	(3) a registered nurse;   
 	(4) a consumer who is not an owner or employee of the agency; and   
 	(5) at least one representative from one of the patient care services provided by the agency.   
(b) At least annually the professional advisory committee shall conduct an overall program evaluation of the agency and forward the results of that evaluation in writing to the governing body of the home health agency. The program evaluation must include a review of the   
 	(1) agency's policies and procedures governing the scope of services offered, including   
 		(A) acceptance and discharge;   
 		(B) medical supervision;   
 		(C) plans of care;   
 		(D) emergency care;   
 		(E) clinical records;   
 		(F) personnel qualifications;   
 		(G) agency administrative practices;   
 		(H) the quality improvement program; and   
 		(I) other relevant professional issues; and   
 	(2) results of quality improvement activities conducted under 
7 AAC 12.512
, including clinical record reviews.   
(c) The home health agency shall document the professional advisory committee's involvement and communication with the governing body and the administrator of the home health agency.   
(d) The professional advisory committee shall maintain each agency review as a separate administrative record.
7 AAC 12.510.  Home health agency administration.
(a) A home health agency shall describe in writing the services provided by the agency, who has administrative control over those services, and the lines of authority for the delegation of responsibility to the patient care level. Administrative and supervisory functions may not be delegated to another agency, individual, or organization.   
(b) All services provided through contractual arrangements must be monitored and controlled by the agency.   
(c) The administrator must be an individual who has education, experience, and knowledge related to home health service and at least one year overall administrative experience in home health care or a related home health program appropriate to the fulfillment of the position's responsibilities.   
(d) The administrator shall   
 	(1) have authority and responsibility for the management of the business affairs and overall operation of the agency;   
 	(2) organize and direct the agency's ongoing functions;   
 	(3) maintain liaison between the governing body, the professional advisory committee, and the staff;   
 	(4) report to the governing body at least annually on agency operations;   
 	(5) employ qualified personnel and ensure adequate continuing education and evaluation of that staff;   
 	(6) designate a director of clinical services;   
 	(7) ensure the involvement of the director of clinical services in all decisions regarding employees and contract staff;   
 	(8) designate, in writing, a qualified person to act in the absence of the administrator;   
 	(9) evaluate the recommendations of agency committees and consultants; and   
 	(10) ensure the home health agency has an institutional budget plan that includes and annual operating budget and a capital expenditure plan for a prospective three-year period.
7 AAC 12.512.  Quality improvement.
(a) A home health agency shall have a quality improvement program to assess the extent to which the agency's program is appropriate, effective, and efficient. The quality improvement program must include an analysis of:   
 	(1) a quarterly clinical record review;   
 	(2) quality indicator data derived from patient assessments;   
 	(3) current clinical practice guidelines and professional practice standards applicable to patients in the home;   
 	(4) utilization data;   
 	(5) measures of staff performance;   
 	(6) medical and other professional evaluation of the home health agency's care giving system;   
 	(7) patient satisfaction surveys; and   
 	(8) patient complaints and the resolution process.   
(b) The quality improvement program must include problem identification, corrective action, and follow-up monitoring of identified problems.   
(c) A home health agency shall review a patient's clinical record for each 62-day period that a patient receives home health services to determine adequacy of the plan of care and appropriateness of continued care.   
(d) The quarterly clinical review required by (a) of this section must be conducted by a multidisciplinary team of health professionals representing the services provided by the agency. The review must consist of at least 10 percent of both active and closed records in that quarter to determine if state and federal laws and agency policies are followed in providing services by employees or contractors of the agency.   
(e) A home health agency shall take whatever corrective action is necessary in response to the findings of the quality improvement program.
7 AAC 12.513.  Plan of care.
(a) A home health agency shall, in consultation with the patient and the patient's attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant, develop a plan of care for each patient accepted by the agency. The plan of care must   
 	(1) be reviewed, as often as the patient's condition requires but at least every 62 days, by   
 		(A) the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant; and   
 		(B) the professional staff of the agency;   
 	(2) be signed by the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant and included in the patient's clinical record not later than 21 days after the start of care or the recertification date of the agency;   
 	(3) identify long and short term goals of patient care that provide measurable indices of performance;   
 	(4) address all pertinent diagnoses, rehabilitation potential, functional limitations, activities permitted, nutritional requirements, medications and treatments, safety measures to protect against injury, planning for discharge, instructions for timely discharge or referral, and any other factors relevant to the care of that patient.   
(b) The agency shall promptly alert the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant of conditions that may require a change to the plan of care. The attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant must approve any changes to the plan of care.   
(c) The agency shall discuss the following information with the patient and document the discussion in the patient's clinical record:   
 	(1) the plan of care;   
 	(2) the services that the agency will provide;   
 	(3) alternate services available when the agency is unable to meet identified needs of the patient.
7 AAC 12.514.  Acceptance of patients.
A home health agency may accept a patient for treatment only if there is a reasonable expectation that the patient's needs will be met adequately by the home health agency in the patient's place of residence. A home health agency may not accept a patient for treatment if that patient's place of residence is a hospital or nursing facility. The agency must consider the following factors before accepting a patient for home health services:   
 	(1) adequacy and suitability of staff and resources of the agency to provide needed services;   
 	(2) assessments of medical, nursing, and social needs of the patient as they relate to the benefits derived from home health care;   
 	(3) attitudes of the patient and family members;   
 	(4) degree of patient and family awareness of their rights and responsibilities;   
 	(5) management of medical emergencies;   
 	(6) availability, ability, and willingness of others to participate in the care of the patient; and   
 	(7) assurance that services can be effectively coordinated through liaison with organizations and individuals also providing care to the patient.
7 AAC 12.515.  Agency staff.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.516.  Director of clinical services.
The home health agency administrator shall designate a physician or registered nurse to serve as that agency's director of clinical services. The director of clinical services shall   
 	(1) supervise the agency's professional service providers;   
 	(2) be available at all times for consultation during regular office hours or have a qualified designee if the director is on authorized leave status;   
 	(3) participate in the development of job descriptions and employment decisions affecting home health personnel who provide direct services;   
 	(4) ensure that the agency has a sufficient number of staff to meet patient needs;   
 	(5) have authority over and responsibility for the   
 		(A) functions, activities, and evaluation of all professional and ancillary staff to assure that they conform to applicable state and federal laws, agency policies and procedures, and applicable professional standards;   
 		(B) quality of home health services, implementation and coordination of each plan of care, appropriateness of each plan of care to meet the patient's needs, and implementation of patient care policies and procedures;  
 		(C) orientation and inservice training for all professional staff and ancillary personnel, including those under contract; and   
 		(D) development and documentation of all written material related to home health services, including policies, procedures, and standards for home health services.
7 AAC 12.517.  Nursing services.
(a) A home health agency shall furnish nursing services in accordance with a plan of care by or under the supervision of a registered nurse licensed under 
AS 08.68
. A registered nurse employed by a home health agency shall   
 	(1) assure that patient care is coordinated between services and that all of the patient's needs identified by the assessments are addressed;   
 	(2) conduct initial evaluation visits and re-evaluate nursing needs on an ongoing basis;   
 	(3) conduct in-depth and comprehensive assessments of a patient at acceptance and when significant changes occur in the patient's condition;   
 	(4) initiate a plan of care and make necessary revisions;   
 	(5) provide services requiring substantial and specialized nursing skill;   
 	(6) initiate appropriate preventive and rehabilitative nursing procedures;   
 	(7) implement patient teaching based on the patient's needs consistent with agency policies and procedures, including demonstration, supervision, and evaluation;   
 	(8) prepare clinical and progress notes;   
 	(9) prepare summaries of care;   
 	(10) inform the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant and inform other personnel of changes in the patient's condition and needs;   
 	(11) counsel each patient and the patient's family on how to meet the patient's nursing and related needs;   
 	(12) prepare a written summary of care and services in the event of patient transfer to another agency, hospital, or other health care setting;   
 	(13) supervise other nursing personnel;   
 	(14) participate in inservice training; and   
 	(15) if a patient is receiving care by a licensed practical nurse, review the plan of care and the nursing services every two weeks and document the review in the patient's clinical record.   
(b) A licensed practical nurse licensed under 
AS 08.68
 employed by a home health agency shall   
 	(1) furnish services in accordance with applicable state and federal law, agency policies and procedures, and the plan of care;   
 	(2) assist the physician and registered nurse in performing specialized procedures;   
 	(3) prepare equipment and materials for treatments observing required aseptic technique;   
 	(4) assist the patient in learning appropriate self-care;   
 	(5) consult the registered nurse in making judgments and decisions regarding care and services rendered; and   
 	(6) prepare clinical progress notes.
7 AAC 12.519.  Home health aide services.
(a) If a home health agency provides home health aide services, those services must be provided   
 	(1) by a home health aide who   
 		(A) is a nurse aide certified by the Board of Nursing under 
AS 08.68.331
 - 08.68.336;   
 		(B) does not appear in the registry of certified nurse aides under 
AS 08.68.333
 as having committed abuse, neglect, or misappropriation of property in connection with employment as a nurse aide;   
 		(C) has a valid criminal history check under 
AS 47.05.300
 - 47.05.390 and 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
, unless a variance is granted under 
7 AAC 10.935
; and   
 		(D) meets home health requirements and has completed the competency evaluation requirements in (f) of this section;   
 	(2) in accordance with a plan of care; and   
 	(3) in accordance with written instructions prepared by a registered nurse, or appropriate therapist providing therapy under 
7 AAC 12.521
, that specify each task to be completed during a home visit.   
(b) A home health aide employed by a home health agency shall   
 	(1) follow a current written plan of care;   
 	(2) perform simple procedures as an extension of therapy services;   
 	(3) provide personal care, including bathing, hair care, oral hygiene, skin care, and hand and foot care;   
 	(4) assist the patient with ambulation and exercise;   
 	(5) assist with the nutritional needs of the patient;   
 	(6) assist with patient administered, non-prescription and prescription medications, by handing the patient the medication bottle or medications prepared under the supervision of a registered nurse or a physician;  
 	(7) report changes in the patient's condition and needs, and complete appropriate records; and   
 	(8) take and record vital signs.   
(c) A home health agency shall provide and document orientation of a home health aide within the two weeks immediately following that aide's employment. Orientation must include information on the following matters:   
 	(1) applicable state and federal law and the policies and procedures of the agency;   
 	(2) duties of the home health aide;   
 	(3) functions of other health personnel employed by the agency and how they relate to each other in the care of the patient;   
 	(4) coordination of services within the agency and community services; and   
 	(5) ethics and confidentiality.   
(d) A registered nurse, or therapist providing service under 
7 AAC 12.521
, shall make a supervisory visit to the patient's residence at least once every two weeks, either to observe and assist when the aide is present, or to assess relationships and determine whether goals identified in the plan of care are being met. The registered nurse or therapist must directly observe the in-home performance of each home health aide at least once every three months.   
(e) A home health agency shall provide a home health aide with 12 hours of inservice training each calendar year based on the training needs identified through supervisory visits and the needs of patients being served by the home health agency. A home health agency shall provide training for all care duties not included in the basic competency skills identified in (f) of this section.   
(f) A home health agency shall maintain sufficient documentation to demonstrate that an individual who furnishes home health aide services is competent in the skills identified in this subsection. Before providing services to patients, a home health aide shall be evaluated for competency in each of the following areas:   
 	(1) communication;   
 	(2) observation, reporting, and documentation of the patient care provided;   
 	(3) maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment;   
 	(4) provision of basic infection control procedures;   
 	(5) knowledge of basic nutrition and fluid intake, including food preparation techniques as appropriate;   
 	(6) reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration;   
 	(7) knowledge and observation of basic elements of body functioning and changes in body function that must be reported to an aide's supervisor;   
 	(8) recognition of emergencies and knowledge of emergency procedures;   
 	(9) recognition of the physical, emotional, and developmental needs of, and ways to work with, the clients served by the home health agency, including respect for the patient, the patient's privacy, and the patient's property;   
 	(10) use of appropriate and safe techniques of personal hygiene and grooming, including   
 		(A) a bed bath;   
 		(B) a sponge, tub, or shower bath;   
 		(C) sink, tub, or bed shampooing;   
 		(D) nail and skin care;   
 		(E) oral hygiene; and   
 		(F) toileting and elimination;   
 	(11) safe transfer techniques and ambulation;   
 	(12) normal range of motion and positioning;   
 	(13) any other task that the home health agency may assign to the home health aide.
7 AAC 12.520.  Nursing service.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.521.  Therapy services.
(a) Physical therapy services offered by a home health agency must be provided in accordance with a plan of care by or under the supervision of a physical therapist licensed under 
AS 08.84
. A physical therapist employed by or on contract with a home health agency shall   
 	(1) evaluate a patient;   
 	(2) establish or modify a physical therapy treatment plan upon written or verbal orders from a physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(3) prepare clinical progress notes;   
 	(4) prepare summaries of care;   
 	(5) plan, supervise, and delegate services to a physical therapy assistant licensed under 
AS 08.84
; and   
 	(6) makes supervisory visits to the patient's residence every two weeks to evaluate the effectiveness of the services furnished by the physical therapy assistant and to document the patient's condition in the clinical record.   
(b) Occupational therapy services offered by a home health agency must be provided in accordance with a plan of care by an occupational therapist licensed under 
AS 08.84
. An occupational therapist employed by or on contract with a home health agency shall   
 	(1) evaluate a patient;   
 	(2) establish or modify an occupational therapy treatment plan upon written or verbal orders from a physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(3) prepare clinical progress notes;   
 	(4) prepare summaries of care;   
 	(5) plan, supervise, and delegate services to an occupational therapy assistant licensed under 
AS 08.84
; and   
 	(6) make supervisory visits to the patient's residence every two weeks to evaluate the effectiveness of the services furnished by the occupational therapy assistant and document the patient's condition in the clinical record.   
(c) A physical therapy assistant and occupational therapy assistant shall   
 	(1) assist in preparing clinical progress notes; and   
 	(2) participate in educating the patient, family, and staff.   
(d) Speech therapy services offered by a home health agency must be provided in accordance with a plan of care by a speech therapist who has a current certificate of clinical competence in speech pathology granted by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. A speech pathologist employed by or under contract to a home health agency shall   
 	(1) evaluate a patient;   
 	(2) establish or modify a speech therapy treatment plan upon written or verbal instructions from the treating physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(3) prepare clinical progress notes; and   
 	(4) prepare summaries of care.
7 AAC 12.523.  Medical social work service.
(a) If a home health agency offers medical social services, the services must be delivered in accordance with the patient's plan of care by, or under the supervision of, a social worker who has   
 	(1) a master's degree from a school of social work accredited by the National Council on Social Work Education;   
 	(2) one year of social work experience in a health care setting; and   
 	(3) if required to be licensed under 
AS 08.95
, a valid license.   
(b) A social worker employed by a home health agency shall   
 	(1) assist the treating physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant, the team members, and the family in understanding the social and emotional factors related to health problems of the patient;   
 	(2) participate in the development of a plan of care;   
 	(3) prepare clinical and progress notes;   
 	(4) participate in inservice training;   
 	(5) refer the patient and family members to appropriate community resources and consult with other agency personnel;   
 	(6) accept, in relation to social services issues, the orders of a physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(7) participate in discharge planning; and   
 	(8) plan, supervise, and delegate services furnished by a social work assistant.   
(c) A social work assistant must have a baccalaureate degree in social work or in a human service field, including sociology, special education, rehabilitation counseling, psychology, or another field related to social work, and at least one year of social work experience in a health care setting. A social work assistant shall   
 	(1) perform delegated services in accordance with the plan of care;   
 	(2) assist in preparing clinical progress notes; and   
 	(3) participate in inservice training.
7 AAC 12.524.  Nutrition services.
If a plan of care requires the consultation or direct services of a dietitian, the home health agency must ensure that those services are provided by a dietitian registered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration of the American Dietetic Association. A dietitian providing services for a home health agency shall   
 	(1) review the dietary assessment of a patient with special dietary needs, and monitor the management of any special diet requirements;   
 	(2) participate in developing a plan of care regarding a patient's dietary needs, including dietary goals, objectives, and interventions;   
 	(3) provide written directions to family and staff for meal planning for a special diet;   
 	(4) participate in patient care conferences;   
 	(5) participate in educating the patient and family about the patient's dietary needs and management;   
 	(6) participate in agency inservice training;   
 	(7) prepare clinical progress notes;   
 	(8) prepare summaries of care;   
 	(9) provide the agency with an assessment and consultation if hyperalimentation services are being provided; and   
 	(10) maintain liaison with the treating physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant and with the agency staff to ensure that their efforts are coordinated effectively and support the objectives outlined in a plan of care.
7 AAC 12.525.  Central supply.
(a) A home health agency shall maintain a separate area for processing, decontamination, if necessary, and storage of sterile supplies and materials.   
(b) A home health agency shall develop and implement policies and procedures for   
 	(1) the cleaning, antimicrobial processing, and storage of nondisposable supplies and equipment to prevent their contamination and the transmission of infection through their use;   
 	(2) identifying potentially infectious materials that must be treated before disposal; and   
 	(3) the handling, packaging, and disposal of materials and sharp instruments contaminated by pathological or infectious waste.
7 AAC 12.526.  Infusion therapy.
(a) If a home health agency provides parenteral or hyperalimentation services, the agency shall   
 	(1) describe the scope of the services to be provided, including the population to be served;   
 	(2) develop a plan for emergency services to meet the scope of the services provided; and   
 	(3) administer treatments only upon the order of a physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant.   
(b) A home health agency shall develop and implement policies and procedures for   
 	(1) preparing and administering parenteral solution, medications, and admixtures;   
 	(2) infection control, including   
 		(A) preparing, assessing, rotating, and labeling the site;   
 		(B) necessary and appropriate flushing procedures; and   
 		(C) using sterile equipment according to manufacturer's guidelines;   
 	(3) using dietitian services when a patient requires enteral or parenteral nutrition;   
 	(4) identifying preparations that can be administered at home;   
 	(5) using and controlling parenterally administered experimental drugs;  
 	(6) using drugs that cause tissue necrosis upon extravasation;   
 	(7) handling and disposing of biohazardous material, antineoplastic agents, and infectious materials;   
 	(8) using precision volume chambers, electronic infusion devices, and flow control devices;   
 	(9) assuring a product is free of particulate matter and cloudiness;   
 	(10) administering blood and blood products to assure   
 		(A) viability, temperature stability, and prevention of contamination; and   
 		(B) registered nurse or physician attendance; and   
 	(11) providing care for pediatric patients that describe the   
 		(A) amount and specifications of parenteral fluid or medication to be administered, as determined by age, body surface, weight, intake, and output; and   
 		(B) type and use of control devices.   
(c) The home health agency shall ensure that employees, including contract personnel, who administer enteral medication or blood products have   
 	(1) any license required under 
AS 08
 and are authorized to penetrate the skin and insert intravenous devices and administer medications;   
 	(2) documented training and skills in   
 		(A) intravenous insertion techniques;   
 		(B) parenteral administration;   
 		(C) line and site management; and   
 		(D) use of equipment.   
(d) The home health agency shall document the following information in each patient's clinical record:   
 	(1) administration of solutions and medications, including amount, rate, and route;   
 	(2) insertion and removal of a cannula, catheter, or needle, and the patient's condition at time of removal;   
 	(3) management of tubing and dressing;   
 	(4) use of electronic infusion devices, volumetric pumps, or flow control devices; and   
 	(5) education of patient or family members on infusion therapy;   
(e) If a home health agency contracts for infusion therapy services, the agency must define the responsibilities of the contractor and the agency in writing, including   
 	(1) the specific services, consultants, and equipment to be provided;   
 	(2) reimbursement procedures; and   
 	(3) staff assignments for monitoring and assisting patients during all hours of infusion therapy administration.
7 AAC 12.530.  Medical records.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.531.  Agency policies and procedures.
(a) A home health agency shall establish, implement, and make available to all personnel, written policies and procedures appropriate to the services offered by the agency. These policies and procedures must be reviewed at least annually and revised as necessary.   
(b) A home health agency shall establish policies and procedures covering   
 	(1) the scope of services and geographic service area;   
 	(2) conditions for acceptance, transfer, discharge, and continuing care of patients;   
 	(3) treatments and procedures performed in the home by each of the services;   
 	(4) infection control policies and practices;   
 	(5) coordination of services;   
 	(6) clinical records;   
 	(7) patient teaching;   
 	(8) intravenous infusion and aseptic technique;   
 	(9) patient safety assessment;   
 	(10) emergency care;   
 	(11) personnel qualifications, responsibilities, and job descriptions;   
 	(12) program evaluation;   
 	(13) the administration, supervision, coordination, and evaluation of services provided through subunits and branch offices of the agency;   
 	(14) patient care equipment and preventive maintenance;   
 	(15) the process for investigation, documentation, and resolution of a complaint made by a patient or the patient's family or guardian;   
 	(16) an advance declaration relating to the use of life-sustaining procedures; and   
 	(17) abuse, neglect, or mistreatment.
7 AAC 12.534.  Patients' rights.
(a) The governing body of a home health agency shall protect and promote the rights of its home health patients, by assuring that   
 	(1) before services are provided, the patient and the patient's family are informed orally and in writing, in a language the patient and family understand, of the rights and obligations of the agency and the patient; the agency shall document the patient's and the patient's family's receipt of these rights and obligations; and   
 	(2) appropriate and professional quality home health care services are provided without discrimination based on race, creed, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual preference, age, or diagnosis, but an agency may limit its practice to the provision of care or services for patients with a specific disease or diagnosis without violating this paragraph.   
(b) A patient receiving home health services has the right to   
 	(1) courteous and respectful treatment of person and property;   
 	(2) be free from physical and mental abuse, neglect, or mistreatment;   
 	(3) receive care or services from employees or contractors properly trained to perform assigned tasks, and to be given proper identification by name and title of an employee or contractor who provides home health care to that patient;   
 	(4) be given the following information in advance of care or services:   
 		(A) the care and services to be provided;   
 		(B) any changes in the care to be provided;   
 		(C) the type of services to be provided;   
 		(D) the frequency of proposed visits for care or services;   
 		(E) the agency's expectation of the patient's responsibilities to participate in the patient's own care; and   
 		(F) the name of the person supervising the care and how to contact that person;   
 	(5) confidentiality with regard to information about the patient's health, social, and financial circumstances and about activities at the patient's home;   
 	(6) expect that the patient's medical history be released only as required by law or authorized by the patient or the patient's legal representative;   
 	(7) access information in the patient's medical record upon written request within two working days of the agency;   
 	(8) be informed, orally and in writing, before a service is initiated, of the expected source of payment for the care or services;   
 	(9) raise a grievance about the service or lack of service provided by the agency, its employees, or its contractors;   
 	(10) be informed of the reason for impending discharge, transfer to another agency, change in the level of care, ongoing care requirements, and other available services and options, if needed; and   
 	(11) participate in development of the patient's plan of care and changes in care or treatment.
7 AAC 12.535.  Drugs.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.537.  Advance directives.
(a) Before initiating care or services, a home health agency must provide each patient, 18 years of age or older, or their legal representatives, with forms and information on   
 	(1) the right of the individual to make health care decisions, including the right to   
 		(A) accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment; and   
 		(B) execute an advance directive and power of attorney for health care;   
 	(2) the policies of the home health agency with respect to the implementation of the rights of the individual to make health care decisions;   
 	(3) living wills and do-not-resuscitate orders;   
 	(4) persons who can provide additional information concerning advance directives and powers of attorney for health care.   
(b) A home health agency may not condition the provision of care or otherwise discriminate against a patient based on whether the patient has executed an advance directive. If the agency cannot comply with a patient's advance directive as a matter of conscience, the agency must assist the patient in transferring to an agency that will comply.
7 AAC 12.540.  Therapeutic treatment.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.541.  Abuse, neglect, and mistreatment.
(a) A home health agency shall develop and implement written policies and procedures that prohibit abuse, neglect, and mistreatment of patients.   
(b) An agency shall   
 	(1) screen a potential employee or contractor to prevent the employment of an individual who has been convicted of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of another individual, or misappropriation of the property of a patient under the individual's care;   
 	(2) contact the appropriate licensing authority to verify the employment background of potential employees or contractors who are required to hold a license to practice;   
 	(3) report to the appropriate licensing authority any knowledge it has of an action by a court or other government agency against an individual that would indicate unfitness for holding a professional or occupational license;   
 	(4) report within 24 hours any suspected abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of a patient or misappropriation of a patient's property to state officials in accordance with 
AS 47.17.010
, 47.17.020, and 
AS 47.24.010
 and to the department in its capacity as the state survey agency;   
 	(5) review and document alleged incidents of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment;   
 	(6) take any necessary action to remove the potential for further abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of a patient or misappropriation of a patient's property while the investigation is in progress;   
 	(7) document the results of the investigation and the corrective action taken; and   
 	(8) assure that an employee or contractor does not obtain a patient's power of attorney in violation of 
AS 13.26.358
.
7 AAC 12.545.  Agency policies and procedures.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.550.  Patient evaluation.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.551.  Drugs.
(a) If ordered by the patient's physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant, a drug may be administered to a patient by an employee or a contractor of the home health agency who is authorized to administer drugs by law.   
(b) An employee or a contractor of a home health agency who administers a drug or injection shall immediately record the name and strength of the drug or injection and sign the patient's clinical record.   
(c) The agency shall document all drugs a patient may be taking, including a drug not prescribed by the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant.
7 AAC 12.555.  Treatment plan.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.558.  Whole blood glucose monitoring.
If a home health agency uses its own equipment to monitor a patient's whole blood glucose levels, the agency must test and calibrate the machine according to the manufacturer's recommendations. If a patient has whole blood glucose equipment, the home health agency must teach the patient the proper use of the equipment.
7 AAC 12.560.  Review of records.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.561.  Clinical records.
(a) A home health agency shall maintain a clinical record for each patient. The clinical record must be legible and maintained in accordance with accepted professional or occupational standards. The clinical record must be readily available upon the request of the   
 	(1) attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(2) the department;   
 	(3) the patient;   
 	(4) the patient's representative; or   
 	(5) if authorized by the patient, another health care provider.   
(b) A clinical record must include the following items:   
 	(1) appropriate identifying information;   
 	(2) assessments by appropriate personnel;   
 	(3) the plans of care;   
 	(4) name of the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(5) signed and dated clinical progress notes;   
 	(6) copies of summary reports sent to the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant;   
 	(7) a signed patient release or consent forms, if indicated;   
 	(8) documentation of informed consent regarding the initiation of care and treatment, and changes in the plan of care;   
 	(9) evidence the patient received the patients' rights under 
7 AAC 12.534
 and advance directive information under 
7 AAC 12.537
;   
 	(10) copies of transfer information sent with the patient; and   
 	(11) a discharge summary.   
(c) Clinical progress notes must be written or dictated on the day that care or service is rendered. The clinical progress notes must be incorporated into the patient's clinical record within seven days. Summaries of the care or service reported must be submitted to the attending physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant at least every 62 days.   
(d) A home health agency shall have written policies and procedures to provide that clinical records are   
 	(1) legibly written in ink or typed, suitable for photocopying;   
 	(2) readily available to authorized personnel during operating hours of the agency;   
 	(3) protected from damage;   
 	(4) if computerized, have a security mechanism in place to ensure confidentiality;   
 	(5) retained for five years after the date of discharge, or, in the case of a minor, three years after the patient turns 21 years of age; agency policy and procedures must provide for record retention even if the home health agency discontinues operation;   
 	(6) disposed of using a method that will prevent retrieval and subsequent use of information; and   
 	(7) transferred with the patient if the patient transfers to another agency or health facility; the transferred record may be a copy or an abstract and a summary report.
7 AAC 12.563.  Contracts.
(a) A home health agency may contract with another facility or agent to perform services or provide resources to the agency. The services provided under contract that are regulated under 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
 must meet the requirements of this chapter.   
(b) A home health agency's contract with another facility or agent to provide home health care or services must   
 	(1) be in writing;   
 	(2) be signed and dated by the agency and the contractor;   
 	(3) specify the respective functions and responsibilities of the contractor and the agency, including the frequency of services to be provided by the contractor;   
 	(4) include, if applicable, the current license or registration number of the contractor;   
 	(5) provide that patients are accepted for care or services only by the contracting home health agency;   
 	(6) identify the type and frequency of services to be furnished;   
 	(7) require the contractor to conform to all applicable agency policies, including personnel qualifications;   
 	(8) specify the contractor's responsibility for participating in developing a plan of care;   
 	(9) specify the manner in which the care or services will be controlled, coordinated, and evaluated by the contracting home health agency;   
 	(10) identify the procedures for   
 		(A) submitting clinical progress notes;   
 		(B) scheduling of visits;   
 		(C) performing periodic patient evaluation; and   
 	(11) identify the procedures for payment for services furnished under the contract.
7 AAC 12.565.  Risk management.
(a) A home health agency shall have a risk management program that includes a procedure to investigate, analyze, and respond to patient grievances related to patient care.   
(b) A home health agency shall conduct, in each service area, an orientation program for each new employee and annual inservice training that covers the following topics:   
 	(1) agency policies and procedures;   
 	(2) employee job responsibilities and the skills necessary to meet those responsibilities;   
 	(3) recognition and response to potential fire, emergency, and home safety hazards;   
 	(4) principles and techniques of infection control; and   
 	(5) ethics and confidentiality.   
(c) A home health agency shall require cardiopulmonary resuscitation training every two years for each employee working directly with patients.   
(d) A home health agency shall establish personnel policies requiring an annual evaluation of each employee's performance.
7 AAC 12.566.  Infection control.
(a) A home health agency shall develop and implement written policies and procedures applicable to all agency staff that 
 	(1) minimize the risk of transmitting infection in all patient care or services; and 
 	(2) provide for the safe handling and disposal of biohazardous and infectious materials. 
(b) At least every two years, a home health agency shall verify that its employees, contractors, and volunteers who provide patient care receive training on universal precautions and the prevention, transmission, and treatment of 
 	(1) human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); 
 	(2) acquired immunodeficiency virus (AIDS); 
 	(3) hepatitis; and 
 	(4) tuberculosis, in accordance with 
7 AAC 12.650
(a)(1).
7 AAC 12.570.  Physical plant.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.571.  Employee health program.
A home health agency shall have an employee health program that meets the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.650
. 
7 AAC 12.590.  Definitions.
In 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
, unless the context requires otherwise,   
 	(1) "abuse" means the infliction of physical pain or injury, the infliction of mental anguish that requires medical attention, or the deprivation by a caretaker of services that are necessary to maintain the physical and mental health of an individual;   
 	(2) "administrator" means the individual appointed by the governing body to manage the home health agency;   
 	(3) "admixture" means a preparation of a dosage form for administration when a drug is altered, diluted, or compounded by the addition of a diluent or another drug;   
 	(4) "agency" has the same meaning given "home health agency" in this chapter;   
 	(5) "branch" means a location from which a home health agency provides services within a portion of the total geographic area served by the parent home health agency;   
 	(6) "clinical progress note" means a written, signed, and dated notation by an employee or contractor of the home health agency of a contact with a patient that contains a description of care or services rendered, patient signs and symptoms, treatments, drugs given, the patient's reaction, changes in physical or emotional condition, and any other pertinent information;  
 	(7) "department" means the Department of Health and Social Services;   
 	(8) "governing body" means the designated persons or group having full legal authority and fiscal responsibility for the conduct and operation of the home health agency;   
 	(9) "home health agency" means an entity that is primarily engaged in providing skilled nursing and at least one other service identified at 
7 AAC 12.505
;   
 	(10) "neglect" means the failure by the caretaker of an individual to provide services necessary to maintain the physical and mental health of the individual;   
 	(11) "nutrition services" means nutritional assessment and counseling, dietary teaching, and the monitoring and management of special diets and hyperalimentation provided by a registered dietitian;   
 	(12) "occupational therapy assistant" means a person licensed under 
AS 08.84
 by the State Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy Board to assist in the practice of occupational therapy under the supervision of an occupational therapist;   
 	(13) "parent home health agency" means a licensed home health agency; a "parent home health agency" may have branches or subunits;   
 	(14) "personal care services" means services of a non-technical medical nature provided to a patient whose medical needs would otherwise require placement in a hospital or nursing home that enables the patient to remain safely in their own home; "personal care services" are ordered by a physician and are designed to improve or delay deterioration of a patient's health; "personal care services" include assistance with activities of daily living, bathing, dressing, meal preparation, light housekeeping, and shopping assistance;   
 	(15) "physical therapy assistant" means a person licensed under 
AS 08.84
 by the State Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy Board to assist in the practice of physical therapy under the supervision of a physical therapist;   
 	(16) "plan of care" means a written plan of treatment based on an attending physician's orders, established by a registered nurse or physical or occupational therapist, and periodically reviewed by a physician;   
 	(17) "primary home health agency" means the licensed home health agency that accepts the patient for the rendering of curative, restorative, or preventive services in the patient's home by an employee of the home health agency; when services are provided through contracts with other organizations or individuals, the contracting home health agency is considered the primary home health agency and is responsible for the plan of treatment signed by the referring physician;   
 	(18) "skilled nursing services" means the curative, restorative, or preventive aspects of patient care services performed by or under the supervision of a registered nurse emphasizing a high level of nursing direction, observation, and skill;   
 	(19) "state survey agency" means the health facilities licensing and certification unit in the division of medical assistance that determines compliance with licensure requirements, certifies home health agencies, and investigates complaints against licensed health facilities;   
 	(20) "subunit" means a location or site from which a home health agency provides services at a distance from the parent home health agency;   
 	(21) "summary report" means a compilation of the pertinent facts from clinical notes at least every 62 days;   
 	(22) "survey" means an on-site review by the department to determine compliance with state and federal law.
Article 13
 General Provisions
7 AAC 12.600.  Scope.
(a) Unless indicated otherwise in this chapter, a facility required to be licensed under 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter must comply with the provisions of 
7 AAC 10.9500
 - 
7 AAC 10.9535
 (General Variance Procedures), 
7 AAC 10.9600
 - 
7 AAC 10.9620
 (Inspections and Investigations), 
7 AAC 12.600
, 
7 AAC 12.605
, 
7 AAC 12.610
, 
7 AAC 12.620
, and 
7 AAC 12.920
, and with the applicable provisions of this section for each type of facility. A critical access hospital must also comply with 
7 AAC 12.612
.   
(b) A general acute care hospital, rural primary care hospital, long-term acute care hospital, critical access hospital, specialized hospital, and nursing facility must comply with 
7 AAC 12.630
 - 
7 AAC 12.660
, 
7 AAC 12.730
 - 
7 AAC 12.770
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, and 
7 AAC 12.890
 - 
7 AAC 12.910
.   
(c) An intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition must comply with 
7 AAC 12.650
, 
7 AAC 12.760
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, and 
7 AAC 12.900
 - 
7 AAC 12.910
.   
(d) An ambulatory surgical facility must comply with 
7 AAC 12.630
, 
7 AAC 12.650
 - 
7 AAC 12.660
, 
7 AAC 12.730
 - 
7 AAC 12.770
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, and 
7 AAC 12.890
 - 
7 AAC 12.910
.   
(e) A free-standing birth center must comply with 
7 AAC 12.650
 - 
7 AAC 12.660
, 
7 AAC 12.730
 - 
7 AAC 12.760
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, 
7 AAC 12.890
, and 
7 AAC 12.910
.   
(f) A home health agency must comply with 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
.   
(g) A facility licensed under this chapter, with the exception of a home health agency, that provides a service described in 
7 AAC 12.670
 - 
7 AAC 12.720
, 
7 AAC 12.780
, 
7 AAC 12.790
 - 
7 AAC 12.850
, 
7 AAC 12.870
, or 
7 AAC 12.880
 must comply with the section of this chapter governing the provision of that service, unless otherwise indicated.   
(h) A frontier extended stay clinic must comply with 
7 AAC 12.450
 - 
7 AAC 12.490
, and the applicable provisions of 
7 AAC 12.630
 - 
7 AAC 12.660
, 
7 AAC 12.730
, 
7 AAC 12.750
, 
7 AAC 12.760
, 
7 AAC 12.770
, 
7 AAC 12.860
, 
7 AAC 12.890
, and 
7 AAC 12.910
.   
(i) A hospice agency must also comply with the applicable provisions of 
7 AAC 12.310
 - 
7 AAC 12.349
, 
7 AAC 12.690
, 
7 AAC 12.700
, and 
7 AAC 12.910
. If the hospice agency provides inpatient care on agency premises, the hospice agency is also subject to the requirements for a nursing home set out in (b) of this section, except for 
7 AAC 12.770
.
7 AAC 12.605.  Background check requirements.
An entity listed in 
AS 47.32.010
(b) that is required to be licensed under 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter must also comply with the applicable requirements of 
AS 47.05.300
 - 47.05.390 and 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
 (barrier crimes and conditions; background checks).
7 AAC 12.610.  Licensure.
(a) Unless exempt under 
7 AAC 12.611
, before an individual or entity may operate a facility subject to 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter, the individual or entity must obtain a license from the department under 
AS 47.32
 and this section. The department may bring an action to enjoin the operation of a facility that has failed to obtain a license as required under 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter. In addition to meeting the applicable requirements of this section, an applicant for licensure of a   
 	(1) hospice agency must also meet the licensure requirements of 
7 AAC 12.312
;   
 	(2) free-standing birth center must also meet the licensure requirements of 
7 AAC 12.404
;   
 	(3) frontier extended stay clinic must also meet the licensure requirements of 
7 AAC 12.457
; or   
 	(4) home health agency must also meet the licensure requirements of 
7 AAC 12.500
 - 
7 AAC 12.590
.   
(b) An application for an initial license must be submitted on a form supplied by the department. The applicant must submit a complete application, providing all applicable documents and information required under this chapter, including the names and addresses of all owners, officers, directors, partners, members, and principals of the business organization that owns the entity for which licensure is sought. Within 30 days after receipt of an application, the department will review the application for completeness. If the application is incomplete, the department will return it to the applicant for additional information. If the application is complete, the department will conduct an onsite review and inspection of the facility. If, after the onsite review and inspection, and review of the application, the department determines that the applicant meets the applicable requirements of 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter, the department will issue a provisional license in accordance with 
AS 47.32.050
(a). If the department determines that the applicant does not meet the applicable requirements of 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter, the department will deny the application and issue the notice as required under 
AS 47.32.070
.   
(c) If the department determines that the applicant is temporarily unable to comply with one or more applicable requirements and is taking appropriate steps to achieve compliance, the department will extend the application review period under (b) of this section for an additional 90 days.   
(d) A biennial license issued under 
AS 47.32.050
(b) becomes valid July 1 of an even-numbered year and expires June 30 of the next even-numbered year. An application for renewal of a biennial license must be submitted, and will be reviewed, in accordance with 
AS 47.32.060
. A renewed biennial license becomes valid July 1 of the biennial licensing period after the previous license expired and expires June 30 of the next even-numbered year. In addition to any noncompliance with the applicable provisions of 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter, grounds for nonrenewal include   
 	(1) submission of false or fraudulent information to the department;   
 	(2) failure or refusal to provide required information to the department;   
 	(3) noncompliance that threatens the health, welfare, or safety of patients;   
 	(4) the facility or individual, or an employee of the facility or individual,   
 		(A) permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of a criminal act under 
AS 11
, 
AS 21
, 
AS 28
, or 
AS 47
 related to facility operations covered by the license;   
 		(B) engaging in conduct or practices detrimental to the health, welfare, or safety of patients, clients, or employees; or   
 		(C) participating in, offering to participate, or implying an offer to participate in rebate, kickback, or fee-splitting arrangements or substantially similar arrangements; and   
 	(5) an insufficient number of staff at the facility with the training, experience, or judgment to provide adequate care.
7 AAC 12.611.  Exemptions from licensure.
(a) Unless operating as a frontier extended stay clinic under 
7 AAC 12.450
 - 
7 AAC 12.490
, a rural health clinic, including a community health center and a federally qualified health center, is exempt from the licensure requirements of 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter.   
(b) A facility owned and operated by the United States Indian Health Service, or a facility owned and operated by a tribal organization, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b(  l), under a funding agreement under 25 U.S.C. 458aaa-4 (Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act and Tribal Self-Governance Amendments of 2000) is exempt from the requirement to obtain a license under 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter. However, a facility described in this subsection must meet the applicable licensure requirements set out in 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter.
7 AAC 12.612.  Licensure of critical access hospitals.
(a) In addition to 
7 AAC 12.610
, the provisions of this section apply to the licensure of critical access hospitals.   
(b) A hospital must hold a current license, or must have held a license at any time on or after November 29, 1999, as either a general acute care hospital or a rural primary care hospital at the time of its initial application for licensure as a critical access hospital.   
(c) An applicant for licensure as a critical access hospital must submit the following as part of its initial application:   
 	(1) a description of the area to be served by the applicant;   
 	(2) a community needs assessment analyzing the availability and utilization of health care services in the applicant's service area, including acute care, primary care, and emergency services, and a discussion of how conversion to a critical access hospital will better serve community needs;   
 	(3) the applicant's plan for the delivery of health services within the applicant's service area;   
 	(4) a financial feasibility study that analyzes the financial impact on the applicant of conversion to a critical access hospital, taking into account relevant operational factors, including changes in utilization, services, staffing, and Medicare reimbursement;   
 	(5) a community education plan that describes the steps that have been or will be taken to educate and involve the residents of the service area in the decision to convert to a critical access hospital;   
 	(6) an emergency services plan that coordinates the provision of emergency medical services in the applicant's service area;   
 	(7) a description of the volume capacity of the applicant and other related health care resources within the applicant's service area;   
 	(8) the distance and travel time to other health care resources within the applicant's service area;   
 	(9) identification of barriers to accessing health care in the applicant's service area.   
(d) A critical access hospital must reapply for licensure under this section and provide updates, as applicable, to the information required under (c) of this section, if the hospital proposes to change the hospital's   
 	(1) onsite or on-call medical staff to provide only mid-level practitioners; or   
 	(2) hours of operation to less than 24 hours per day when no inpatients are in the facility.   
(e) In addition to the requirement of reapplication for licensure under (d) of this section, if a critical access hospital proposes to change its hours of operation to less than 24 hours per day, each day of the year, the hospital must  
 	(1) revise the emergency medical services plan submitted under (c)(6) of this section to ensure that, at a minimum, a registered nurse will be available at the hospital's emergency room to receive patients delivered by emergency medical services personnel; and   
 	(2) obtain a waiver under 
7 AAC 12.670
(i) from the requirement of 
7 AAC 12.670
(g) that the hospital have a registered nurse on duty at all times.
7 AAC 12.615.  Facility fees.
(a) An application under 
AS 47.32.040
 from a facility for a license must be accompanied by the following fees to cover the provisional licensure period: 
 	(1) for a hospital: $2,000, plus $85 per bed; 
 	(2) for a nursing facility within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
: $1,000, plus $125 per bed; 
 	(3) for an ambulatory surgical center, including an ambulatory surgical facility: $650; 
 	(4) for a free-standing birth center: $250; 
 	(5) for a home health agency within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
, fees as follows: 
 		(A) a fee based on total employee full-time equivalents (FTEs) to include any full-time equivalents at any subunit or branch, as follows: 
 		 	(i) five or fewer full-time equivalents: $1,000; 
 		 	(ii) six to 15 full-time equivalents: $1,500; 
 		 	(iii) 16 to 50 full-time equivalents: $2,000; 
 		 	(iv) 51 or more full-time equivalents: $3,000; 
 		(B) in addition to the applicable fee under (A) of this paragraph, $500 for each separate subunit or branch that the home health agency includes in the home health agency's license; 
 	(6) for a hospice agency, fees as follows: 
 		(A) for a parent hospice agency and each agency that operates as a subunit under a parent hospital agency, fees as follows: 
 		 	(i) a volunteer hospice that primarily provides hospice services where a client lives or stays: $100; 
 		 	(ii) a non-volunteer hospice that primarily provides hospice services where a client lives or stays: $250; 
 		 	(iii) an inpatient hospice facility: $250, plus $75 per bed; 
 		(B) in addition to the applicable fee under (A) of this paragraph, $100 for each separate subunit that the parent hospice agency includes in the parent hospice agency's license; 
 	(7) for a frontier extended stay clinic: $250, plus $100 for each bed used for extended stay patients;
 	(8) for a subacute mental health facility that operates as a
 		(A) crisis stabilization center, $750 plus $150 per patient chair;
 		(B) crisis residential center, $750 plus $150 per bed.
(b) The department may extend, without charging a fee, a provisional license for one additional period not to exceed one year under 
AS 47.32.050
(a). 
(c) Before the department issues a facility a biennial license under 
AS 47.32.050
(b), or before the department renews a biennial license under 
AS 47.32.060
(a), the facility must pay the following fees: 
 	(1) for a hospital: $4,000, plus $170 per bed; 
 	(2) for a nursing facility within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
: $2,000, plus $250 per bed; 
 	(3) for an ambulatory surgical center, including an ambulatory surgical facility: $1,300; 
 	(4) for a free-standing birth center: $500; 
 	(5) for a home health agency within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
, fees as follows: 
 		(A) a fee based on total employee full-time equivalents (FTEs) to include any full-time equivalents at any subunit or branch, as follows: 
 		 	(i) five or fewer full-time equivalents: $2,000; 
 		 	(ii) six to 15 full-time equivalents: $3,000; 
 		 	(iii) 16 to 50 full-time equivalents: $4,000; 
 		 	(iv) 51 or more full-time equivalents: $6,000; 
 		(B) in addition to the applicable fee under (A) of this paragraph, $1,000 for each separate subunit or branch that the home health agency includes in the home health agency's license; 
 	(6) for a hospice agency, fees as follows: 
 		(A) for a parent hospice agency and each agency that operates as a subunit under a parent hospital agency, fees as follows: 
 		 	(i) for a volunteer hospice that primarily provides hospice services where a client lives or stays: $200; 
 		 	(ii) for a non-volunteer hospice that primarily provides hospice services where a client lives or stays: $500; 
 		 	(iii) for an inpatient hospice facility: $500, plus $150 per bed; 
 		(B) in addition to the applicable fee under (A) of this paragraph, $200 for each separate subunit that the parent hospice agency includes in the parent hospice agency's license; 
 	(7) for a frontier extended stay clinic: $500, plus $200 for each bed used for extended stay patients;
 	(8) for a subacute mental health facility that operates as a
 		(A) crisis stabilization center, $1,500 plus $300 per chair;
 		(B) crisis residential center, $1,500 plus $300 per bed.
(d) If an inspection reveals noncompliance with 
AS 47.32
 or this chapter, a facility shall pay, not later than 30 days after the revisit, a revisit fee as follows for each additional onsite visit by the department that results from failure of the facility to achieve and maintain compliance within a reasonable time set by the department: 
 	(1) for a hospital: $500; 
 	(2) for a nursing facility within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
: $500; 
 	(3) for an ambulatory surgical center, including an ambulatory surgical facility: $250; 
 	(4) for a free-standing birth center: $150; 
 	(5) for a home health agency within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
: $150; 
 	(6) for a hospice agency: $100; 
 	(7) for a frontier extended stay clinic: $250;
 	(8) for a subacute mental health facility that operates as a crisis stabilization center or a crisis residential center, $250.
(e) If a facility changes location, the department will make an onsite visit and inspection of the new location. The facility shall pay the applicable fee in (d) of this section that the department would charge for a revisit. 
(f) A fee due under this section is nonrefundable. 
(g) Violation of this section may result in an enforcement action under 
AS 47.32.140
. 
(h) If a facility applies for a license modification to expand capacity to serve additional patients, residents, or clients, and the application is not part of an application submitted timely under 
AS 47.32.060
 and 
7 AAC 12.610
(d) for renewal of a biennial license, the facility shall pay the applicable bed fee required under (a) of this section for each additional bed, regardless of the amount of time left in the current biennial licensing period. 
(i) If a home health agency within the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
 applies for a license modification to add a subunit or branch, and the application is not part of an application submitted timely under 
AS 47.32.060
 and 
7 AAC 12.610
(d) for renewal of a biennial license, the home health agency shall pay the appropriate fees in (a) of this section for each new subunit or branch and any fees associated with additional full-time equivalents, regardless of the amount of time left in the current biennial licensing period. 
(j) If a facility applies for a license modification for a reason not otherwise set out in this section, and the application is not part of an application submitted timely under 
AS 47.32.060
 and 
7 AAC 12.610
(d) for renewal of a biennial license, the facility shall pay a modification fee of $250, regardless of the amount of time left in the current biennial licensing period. 
(k) A facility that the state owns and operates is exempt from paying a fee set out in this section.
7 AAC 12.620.  Enforcement actions; informal reconsideration of findings.
(a) The department will inspect each facility and conduct investigations as provided in 
AS 47.32
, 
7 AAC 10.9600
 - 
7 AAC 10.9620
, and this chapter.   
(b) Except for enforcement actions under 
AS 47.32.130
, the department will, before delivering a report under 
AS 47.32.120
 and if requested by the facility, meet informally with representatives of the facility to discuss the department's findings and any proposed enforcement action. An informal meeting under this subsection does not affect any rights under 
AS 47.32
.
7 AAC 12.630.  Governing body.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of birth centers, hospice agencies that do not provide inpatient care on agency premises, and intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, must have a governing body that assumes responsibility for implementing and monitoring policies that govern the facility's operation and for ensuring that those policies are administered in a manner that provides quality health care in a safe environment. The facility must provide to the department the name, title, and mailing address for   
 	(1) each owner of the facility;   
 	(2) each person who is principally responsible for directing facility operations; and   
 	(3) the person responsible for medical direction.   
(b) The governing body shall   
 	(1) adopt, and revise when necessary, written bylaws providing for   
 		(A) election or appointment of officers and committees;   
 		(B) appointment of a local advisory board if the governing body is outside the state; and   
 		(C) frequency of meetings;   
 	(2) appoint an administrator, in accordance with written criteria;   
 	(3) maintain written records on the appointment of members to the medical staff, and the granting of privileges based on the recommendations of the medical staff;   
 	(4) require medical staff to sign an agreement to follow the bylaws of the medical staff;   
 	(5) establish appeal procedures for applicants for and members of the medical staff;   
 	(6) provide resources and personnel as necessary to meet patient needs; and   
 	(7) provide adequate equipment and supplies for the facility.   
(c) In addition to meeting the responsibilities of a governing body set out at (b) of this section, the governing body of a critical access hospital shall   
 	(1) make agreements with one or more appropriate entities identified in 42 C.F.R. 485.603(c), as amended through July 1, 1999 and adopted by reference, for credentialing of medical staff and for review of the quality and effectiveness of the diagnosis and treatment furnished by medical staff at the hospital; and   
 	(2) if the hospital provides inpatient care through mid-level practitioners under the offsite supervision of a physician, participate in a rural health network as described in 42 C.F.R. 485.603(a), as amended through July 1, 1999 and adopted by reference, and enter agreements with other members of the network addressing the subjects described in 42 C.F.R. 485.603(b), as amended through July 1, 1999 and adopted by reference.
7 AAC 12.640.  Administration.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of birth centers, intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, home health agencies, hospice agencies that do not provide inpatient care on agency premises, and ambulatory surgical facilities must comply with the provisions of this section.   
(b) A facility must have an administrator, who is directly responsible to the governing body. The administrator shall   
 	(1) coordinate staff services;   
 	(2) provide liaison between the governing body and facility staff;   
 	(3) report to the governing body regularly and at least annually on facility operations;   
 	(4) provide written notice to medical staff of initial and annual or, if approved by the governing body, biennial appointments;   
 	(5) evaluate for implementation recommendations of the facility's committees and consultants;   
 	(6) ensure that the facility complies with program standards; and   
 	(7) delineate responsibility and accountability of each service component of the facility to the administration.   
(c) Each facility must have an institutional budget plan which includes an annual operating budget and a capital expenditure plan for a projected three-year period. A committee comprised of representatives of the governing body and administrative staff shall prepare the plan.
7 AAC 12.650.  Employee health program.
(a) A facility must establish and maintain an employee health program that   
 	(1) provides tuberculosis education, screening, testing, evaluation, and treatment in accordance with the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendations for tuberculosis screening and testing of health care personnel; baseline tuberculosis screening and testing for a new employee must occur before the employee's first day of employment;   
 	(2) requires evidence of immunization against rubella by   
 		(A) a valid immunization certificate signed by a physician listing the date of rubella vaccination;   
 		(B) a copy of a record from a clinic or health center showing the date of vaccination; or   
 		(C) the result of a serologic test approved by the department showing the employee is immune; and   
 	(3) requires evidence of immunization against hepatitis B by   
 		(A) a valid immunization certificate signed by a physician listing the date of vaccination; or   
 		(B) a copy of a record from a clinic or health center showing the date of vaccination.   
(b) The requirements of this section do not apply to hospice agencies that do not provide inpatient care on agency premises. The requirements of (a)(2) of this section do not apply to home health agencies, nursing homes, or ambulatory surgical facilities, and, for employees of other facilities, may be waived if a physician signs a certificate that there are medical reasons that dictate that an employee should not be vaccinated against rubella.
7 AAC 12.660.  Personnel.
(a) A facility must plan and retain records of employee orientation, in-service training programs, and employee supervision. In addition, the facility must maintain for each employee a file that includes   
 	(1) a current job description;   
 	(2) a copy of the employee's current license or certification, if a license or certification is required by statute for the employee's profession;   
 	(3) a summary of the employee's education, training, and experience;   
 	(4) evidence of the employee's compliance with the employee health requirements of 
7 AAC 12.650
; and   
 	(5) evidence of compliance with the applicable requirements of 
AS 47.05.300
 - 47.05.390 and 
7 AAC 10.900
 - 
7 AAC 10.990
 (barrier crimes and conditions; background checks).   
(b) If required by 
AS 08
, patient care personnel must be currently licensed, certified, authorized, or registered in the state for the practice of their particular profession.   
(c) Physicians, licensed nurses, pharmacists, physical therapists, dietitians, and social workers must be involved in the orientation and in-service education program for patient care personnel.   
(d) The facility shall   
 	(1) document in personnel files that each employee has completed all required orientation, education, and training; and   
 	(2) establish and implement personnel policies requiring an annual evaluation of each employee's performance.
7 AAC 12.670.  Nursing service.
(a) A licensed nurse shall write a patient care plan for each patient in consultation with other patient care personnel and the patient.   
(b) The patient care plan must reflect analysis of patient problems and needs, treatment goals, medication prescribed and, upon discharge, instructions given to the patient and the patient's family regarding medication management, including any risks, side effects, and benefits expected, and including any recommended activities and diet.   
(c) Each facility must have a registered nurse as the director for nursing services. The director shall perform the following duties:   
 	(1) assure that all nurses comply with the requirements of (a) of this section;   
 	(2) provide a sufficient number of registered nurses to meet patient needs;   
 	(3) write an annual evaluation on the performance of each nurse;   
 	(4) maintain records on the number of nurses employed and the hours and weeks of employment;   
 	(5) delegate to a registered nurse the responsibility to plan, assign, supervise, and evaluate the nursing care for each patient;   
 	(6) select and promote nursing personnel based on their qualifications and terminate employees when necessary; and   
 	(7) establish and implement a standard procedure for the safe administration of medications.   
(d) Only a registered nurse who has been appropriately trained may perform a blood transfusion. All other nursing services may be performed only under the direction of a registered nurse. A licensed practical nurse may administer medications, or perform limited infusion therapy functions, if   
 	(1) the licensed practical nurse is authorized under 
AS 08
 to perform these services;   
 	(2) these services are authorized in the facility program standards; and   
 	(3) the program standards have been approved by the hospital administrator and the pharmacist.   
(e) Licensed nursing personnel who meet the requirements under (d) of this section to administer medications, and who have been authorized in writing by the hospital administrator and the pharmacist, may perform the following services if a pharmacist is not available:   
 	(1) inventory and restocking of emergency drugs at least every 30 days; and   
 	(2) removal of a single dose of a prescribed drug for a patient or any drug packaged by a pharmacist from the licensed pharmacy or drug room.   
(f) If licensed nursing personnel perform a service described in (e)(2) of this section, a pharmacy or drug room record must be kept and signed by the licensed nurse showing the name, strength and amount of the drug, the date and time taken, and the patient to whom the drug is administered.   
(g) Except as provided in (i) of this section for a critical access hospital or 
7 AAC 12.275
 for a nursing facility, a facility that provides a nursing service must have a registered nurse on duty at all times.   
(h) The nursing staff shall hold regular meetings to review and evaluate ways of improving nursing care. Minutes of the meetings must be made available to staff members.   
(i) The department will waive the requirement of (g) of this section for a critical access hospital if the hospital establishes to the department's satisfaction that   
 	(1) to have a registered nurse on duty at all times is not financially feasible for the hospital;   
 	(2) the community served by the hospital was involved in the decision to discontinue having a registered nurse on duty at all times and is aware that the hospital's emergency department may close on occasion;   
 	(3) the hospital's emergency medical service plan submitted under 
7 AAC 12.612
(c)(6) assures that a registered nurse will be available at the hospital's emergency room to receive patients delivered by local emergency services personnel; and   
 	(4) the hospital will have a registered nurse on duty whenever an inpatient is present in the facility.   
(j) A frontier extended stay clinic is exempt from the requirements of this section.
7 AAC 12.680.  Pharmaceutical service.
(a) A facility which dispenses drugs must employ a pharmacist on a regular or consultant basis. The pharmacist shall perform the following duties:   
 	(1) procure, label, and maintain a sufficient quantity of drugs to meet patient needs at all times;   
 	(2) inventory emergency drugs every 30 days and restock, as necessary;   
 	(3) dispose of drugs that have been discontinued or have expired;   
 	(4) dispose of scheduled drugs that have been discontinued or have expired which are listed in schedules I - V of the Federal Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 as amended, 21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.;   
 	(5) assure that there is no more than one person on each shift who is performing the duties under 
7 AAC 12.670
(e), or is a physician, who has access to the pharmacy stock of drugs or controlled substances;   
 	(6) assure that drugs, chemicals, and biologicals are properly labeled regarding their content and strength;   
 	(7) if a consultant pharmacist, provide a written quarterly report to the administrator on the status of the pharmaceutical service; and   
 	(8) document and evaluate medication errors to prevent reoccurrence and to ensure the accuracy and adequacy of the medication distribution system.   
(b) When a pharmacist dispenses drugs by written prescription, the prescription must be an original or a carbon copy of the original and must be kept on file in the pharmacy. A pharmacist may dispense drugs based on a written order by a person authorized by law to prescribe drugs.   
(c) A facility that dispenses drugs must have a pharmacy and therapeutics committee that is   
 	(1) composed of   
 		(A) a physician or the physician's representative;   
 		(B) a pharmacist or the pharmacist representative;   
 		(C) a registered nurse or the registered nurse's representative; and   
 		(D) an administrator or the administrator's representative; and   
 	(2) responsible for the   
 		(A) development and maintenance of a formulary of drugs;   
 		(B) development and implementation of procedures for safe and effective control, storage, dispensing, and administration of medications; those procedures must ensure that   
 		 	(i) drugs and biologicals are stored in secure areas; and   
 		 	(ii) drugs listed in schedules II, III, IV, and V under 21 U.S.C. 801 - 904 (Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970) are kept locked within a secure area; and   
 		(C) development and implementation of policies limiting the duration of drug therapy and for determining the stock of poison antidotes.   
(d) A verbal order for a drug may be given only to a licensed nurse or pharmacist by a person lawfully authorized to prescribe medication, and must be recorded promptly in the patient's medical record, identifying the name of the person who prescribed the order, and the signature of the person receiving the order.   
(e) A standing order for a drug must specify the circumstances for drug administration, dosage, route, duration, and frequency of administration. The order must be reviewed annually and, if necessary, renewed. When a standing order is implemented for a specific patient, it must be entered into the patient's record, dated, and signed by the person who prescribed the order within 24 hours.   
(f) If the facility permits bedside storage of medications, written policies and procedures must be established for dispensing, storage, and maintenance of records for use of these medications.   
(g) An investigational drug may be used only under supervision of a principal investigator who is a member of the medical staff. Basic information concerning the dosage, route of administration, strength, actions, uses, side effects, interactions and symptoms of toxicity of an investigational drug must be available at the nursing station where an investigational drug is being administered and in the pharmacy. The pharmacist shall be responsible for the proper labeling, storage, and distribution of such drugs in accordance with the written order of the investigator.   
(h) A drug supplied by a facility may not be taken from the facility unless the medication has been properly labeled and prepared by the pharmacist in accordance with state and federal law for use outside of the facility.   
(i) A hospice agency that does not provide inpatient care on agency premises, a free-standing birth center, and a frontier extended stay clinic are exempt from the requirements of this section.
7 AAC 12.690.  Physical therapy service.
(a) A facility that provides physical therapy services must retain, as an employee or under contract as a consultant of the facility, a physical therapist licensed under 
AS 08.84
. If treatment is to be rendered by a physical therapy assistant, the physical therapy assistant must be licensed under 
AS 08.84
, and the treatment must be planned, delegated, and supervised by the physical therapist.   
(b) A physical therapist may evaluate a patient and establish a treatment program only upon written or verbal instructions from the treating physician. A treatment program and any modification to it must be approved by the referring physician. A physical therapist may accept a verbal order of a physician.   
(c) A physical therapist shall perform the following duties or, if one or more of these duties is delegated to a physical therapy assistant, the physical therapist shall ensure that the duties are properly performed:   
 	(1) enter each treatment into the patient's medical record;   
 	(2) prepare clinical progress notes;   
 	(3) prepare summaries of care.
7 AAC 12.700.  Social work service.
(a) A facility that provides social work services must retain a social worker licensed under 
AS 08.95
 as an employee or consultant of the facility. The social worker shall   
 	(1) regularly assess the social service needs for each patient, resident, or client, implementing the plan of care to meet those needs, and reevaluating those needs as appropriate;   
 	(2) link each patient, resident, or client and that individual's family with applicable community resources as necessary to assist in meeting ongoing social, emotional, and economic needs;   
 	(3) assist the physician, any interdisciplinary team, and other staff in understanding the social and emotional factors related to the health of each patient, resident, or client;   
 	(4) prepare clinical and progress notes;   
 	(5) participate in in-service training; and   
 	(6) plan, supervise, and delegate any services furnished by a social services specialist as provided in (c) of this section.   
(b) A facility that provides social work services must identify and provide interventions in response to the medically-related mental, behavioral, psychosocial, and advocacy needs of a patient. Social work services must assist staff, patients, and patients' families to understand and cope with emotional and social problems associated with health care.   
(c) A social services specialist must have a baccalaureate degree in social work or in a human service field, and at least one year of social work experience in a health care setting. A social services specialist shall act as an assistant to the social worker and shall   
 	(1) perform services delegated by the social worker, in accordance with the plan of care;   
 	(2) assist in preparing clinical progress notes;   
 	(3) participate in the interdisciplinary team meetings; and   
 	(4) participate in in-service training.   
(d) In this section, "human service field" means sociology, special education, rehabilitation counseling, psychology, or another field related to social work.
7 AAC 12.710.  Occupational therapy service.
(a) A facility which provides occupational therapy services must retain an occupational therapist as an employee or consultant of the facility.   
(b) Repealed 5/28/92.   
(c) An occupational therapist shall directly supervise assistants.
7 AAC 12.720.  Dietetic service.
(a) A facility that provides dietetic services, with the exception of frontier extended stay clinics, must comply with the provisions of this section.   
(b) Except as provided in (p) and (q) of this section, a facility must employ  
 	(1) a full-time dietitian who is registered by the American Dietetic Association; or   
 	(2) a full-time dietetic service supervisor to supervise the dietetic service and a registered dietitian on a consulting basis.   
(c) A registered dietitian must be available not less than once every three months to provide advice to the administrator and medical staff, and guidance to the supervisor and staff of the dietetic service, and shall participate in the development or revision of dietetic policies and procedures.   
(d) The dietetic service must provide food of the quality and quantity to meet the patient's needs in accordance with physician's orders and, to the extent medically possible, to meet the National Research Council's   Recommended Dietary Allowances, 10th edition (1989), adopted by reference. If food is provided by an outside food service establishment, the facility shall ensure that the requirements of this subsection are met.   
(e) A facility that provides dietetic services must comply with 
18 AAC 31
. The facility shall retain written reports of the inspections performed under 
18 AAC 31.900
 on file, with notation of corrective actions in response to citations, if any.   
(f) A facility must maintain adequate space, equipment, and staple food supplies to provide food service to patients in emergencies.   
(g) If a facility provides dietetic services, it must maintain a current profile card for each patient indicating prescribed diet, likes and dislikes, and other pertinent information concerning the patient's dietary needs.   
(h) The facility must maintain lavatories for handwashing, with hot and cold running water, soap, and disposable towels, conveniently located in the service area used by persons who handle food.   
(i) A current manual for therapeutic diets, approved by the dietitian, must be available in the dietetic service area.   
(j) A copy of the menus, with menu substitutions, must be retained for at least 60 days.   
(k) Records of food purchased, showing dates of purchases, quantity, and itemized cost, must be retained on file for at least one year.   
(l) Standardized recipes must be maintained and used exclusively in food preparation.   
(m) Current work schedules by job titles and weekly duty schedules for dietetic service personnel must be posted in the dietetic service area and retained for at least three months.   
(n) Routine cleaning schedules must be posted and records of cleaning must be maintained on file for at least three months.   
(o) In this section, a "dietetic service supervisor" means a person who   
 	(1) is a graduate of a dietetic technician or dietetic manager training program, corresponding or classroom, approved by the American Dietetic Association;   
 	(2) is a graduate of a course approved by the department that provided 90 or more hours of classroom instruction in food service supervision, and who has a minimum of two years of experience as a supervisor in a health care institution with consultation from a dietitian;   
 	(3) has training and experience in food service supervision and management in a military service equivalent in content to the programs in (1) or (2) of this subsection;   
 	(4) has completed all nutrition and related coursework necessary to take the registration examination required to become a registered dietitian by the American Dietetic Association;   
 	(5) is certified by the Certifying Board for Dietary Managers of the Dietary Managers Association;   
 	(6) has completed a dietary manager course curriculum approved by the American Dietary Manager Association, is registered by the American Dietetic Association, and is qualified to take the examination required to become certified by the certifying board for dietary managers of the Dietary Managers Association; or   
 	(7) has at least three years of experience in institutional dietary management, 200 or more documented contact hours with a dietitian registered by the American Dietetic Association, and 30 or more continuing education credits that   
 		(A) have been approved by the American Dietetic Association or Dietary Managers Association; and   
 		(B) directly relate to food service management and clinical nutrition.   
(p) A rural primary care hospital or a critical access hospital must have a dietitian registered by the American Dietetic Association or a dietetic service supervisor to supervise and monitor the dietary services to ensure the facility meets patients' nutritional needs and the requirements of this section. The services of a registered dietitian or a dietetic services supervisor may be provided on a part-time, offsite basis.   
(q) A nursing home that is licensed separately under this chapter, but that is part of a licensed critical access hospital under 
7 AAC 12.104
, must employ a qualified dietitian either full time, part time, or on a consultant basis to plan, manage, and implement dietary service activities to assure that the residents receive adequate nutrition and that the dietary department of the nursing home is functioning properly. If a qualified dietitian is not employed full time, the facility is subject to the following requirements:   
 	(1) the facility must designate a person to serve as the   
 		(A) dietetic service supervisor; or   
 		(B) manager of food service; a manager of food service is exempt from the requirements of (o) of this section;   
 	(2) the facility shall ensure that the dietitian   
 		(A) makes frequently scheduled onsite consultation visits to the facility;   
 		(B) functions collaboratively with the dietetic service supervisor or manager of food service in meeting the nutritional needs of the residents;   
 		(C) provides supervision for dietary department functions;   
 		(D) develops and implements continuing education programs for dietary services and nursing personnel; and   
 		(E) participates in interdisciplinary care planning.
7 AAC 12.730.  Central service.
(a) If a facility processes sterilized instruments and supplies, it must meet the requirements in this section. If a facility receives sterilized instruments and supplies from another entity through contract or agreement, the facility must ensure the contractor meets the requirements in this section.   
(b) A facility must maintain a separate area for processing, decontamination, if necessary, and storage of sterile supplies and materials.   
(c) A facility must develop and implement written policies and procedures for the cleaning, antimicrobial processing, and storage of supplies and equipment to prevent the transmission of infection through their use.   
(d) Traffic in an area designated for processing, decontamination, and storage of supplies must be restricted to properly attired authorized personnel. Birth centers, frontier extended stay clinics, and nursing homes are not required to comply with this subsection.   
(e) Shipping cartons may not be stored with sterile products.   
(f) A facility must retain records of bacteriological efficiency monitoring of autoclaves at recommended frequency for three years.   
(g) Instructions for the operation of autoclaves must be posted near the equipment.   
(h) Each facility must maintain a retrieval system for supplies whose sterility is questionable.   
(i) A hospice agency that does not provide inpatient care on agency premises is exempt from the requirements of this section.
7 AAC 12.740.  Laundry service.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of home health agencies, frontier extended stay clinics, and intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, must provide a laundry service.   
(b) A facility must develop and implement written procedures for handling, processing, storage, and transportation of linen in a manner that will prevent the spread of infection and will assure the maintenance of clean linen.   
(c) If a facility operates its own laundry, it must be   
 	(1) located so that steam, odors, lint, and objectionable noises do not reach patient or personnel areas;   
 	(2) well-lighted, ventilated, and adequate in size for the needs of the facility;   
 	(3) maintained in a sanitary manner and in good repair;   
 	(4) separate from any storage area; and   
 	(5) organized so that clean and soiled functions are physically separated.   
(d) A facility must have laundry equipment that provides hot water at a temperature of 160� Fahrenheit unless the facility uses an alternative disinfectant measure, including ozonized water, bleach, or a bleach byproduct, at a lower temperature recommended by the product manufacturer. If the facility uses an alternative disinfectant measure, the facility must develop a written policy and procedure for use of the product and must maintain documentation of the manufacturer's minimum recommended water temperature.   
(e) Hand-washing and toilet facilities for laundry personnel must be provided at a location convenient to the laundry.   
(f) Separate covered carts must be used for transporting soiled and clean linen. The carts must be clearly labeled and equipped with washable covers that are laundered or suitably cleaned daily.   
(g) If laundry service is provided by an outside laundry service establishment, the facility must choose an establishment that meets the requirements of this section.
7 AAC 12.750.  Housekeeping service.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of home health agencies and intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, must provide a housekeeping service.   
(b) A facility must have routine cleaning procedures for furniture, floors, walls, ceilings, supply and exhaust grills, and lighting fixtures.   
(c) A facility must have written procedures for cleaning all areas of the facility, including cleaning of a patient unit following discharge of a patient.  
(d) Housekeeping personnel must wear clean cap, mask, and gown when cleaning a surgical or delivery suite.   
(e) A facility must maintain sufficient housekeeping cleaning supplies and equipment. Separate equipment must be provided, as applicable, for operating rooms, delivery rooms, the nursery, and the dietary area. Housekeeping equipment and cleaning supplies, other than those in bulk, must be stored in designated housekeeping supply rooms. A detergent germicide must be used for all cleaning and dusting purposes. Mop heads must be removable and must be changed at least daily.   
(f) Each facility must provide a sufficient housekeeping service to maintain the interior of the facility in a safe, clean, orderly and attractive manner and free from offensive odors.
7 AAC 12.760.  Infection control.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of home health agencies and hospice agencies that do not provide inpatient care on agency premises, must have an infection control committee.   
(b) The administrator or medical staff shall appoint an infection control committee composed of representatives of the medical staff, administration, nursing, and other services, that is responsible for maintenance and supervision of an infection control program.   
(c) The infection control committee shall establish and maintain, as part of the infection control program,   
 	(1) specific procedures for diagnosing, reporting, investigating, reviewing, and maintaining records of infection of residents and personnel, such as the procedures set out in the federal Centers for Disease Control guidelines;   
 	(2) written procedures for all departments incorporating principles or practices that reduce the risk of infection in all patient care services and areas;   
 	(3) a system for reporting communicable diseases in accordance with 
7 AAC 27.005
 - 
7 AAC 27.010
; and   
 	(4) written isolation and body substance isolation techniques for known or suspected communicable diseases or infections.   
(d) The infection control committee shall meet not less than quarterly, and shall retain written minutes of all meetings for at least three years.   
(e) Infectious wastes must be disposed of in an incinerator which provides complete combustion.   
(f) The infection control committee shall approve proposed disinfectant-detergent formulations and policies and procedures for their use.
7 AAC 12.770.  Medical record service.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of home health agencies, hospice agencies, intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, and birth centers, must have a medical record service that complies with the applicable provisions of this section. A frontier extended stay clinic must comply with (b), (d), (g), and (i) - (k) of this section in addition to the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.483
.   
(b) A facility must keep records on all patients admitted or accepted for treatment. The medical records, including x-ray films, are the property of the facility and are maintained for the benefit of the patients, the medical staff, and the facility. Medical records are subject to the requirements of 
AS 18.05.042
, 
7 AAC 43.030
, and 
7 AAC 43.032
. This section does not affect other statutory or regulatory requirements regarding access to, use of, disclosure of, confidentiality of, or retention of record contents, or regarding maintenance of health information in patients' records by health care providers. A facility must maintain originals or accurate reproductions of the contents of the originals of all records, including x-rays, consultation reports, and laboratory reports, in a form that is legible and readily available  
 	(1) upon request, to the attending physician or other practitioner responsible for treatment, a member of the facility's medical staff, or a representative of the department; and   
 	(2) upon the patient's written request, to another practitioner.   
(c) Each in-patient medical record must include, as appropriate   
 	(1) an identification sheet which includes the   
 		(A) patient's name;   
 		(B) medical record number;   
 		(C) patient's address on admission;   
 		(D) patient's date of birth;   
 		(E) patient's sex;   
 		(F) patient's marital status;   
 		(G) patient's religious preference;   
 		(H) date of admission;   
 		(I) name, address, and telephone number of a contact person;   
 		(J) name of the patient's attending physician;   
 		(K) initial diagnostic impression;   
 		(L) date of discharge and final diagnosis; and   
 		(M) source of payment;   
 	(2) a medical and psychiatric history and examination record;   
 	(3) consultation reports, dental records, and reports of special studies;   
 	(4) an order sheet which includes medication, treatment, and diet orders signed by a physician;   
 	(5) progress notes for each service or treatment received;   
 	(6) nurses' notes which must include   
 		(A) an accurate record of care given;   
 		(B) a record of pertinent observations and response to treatment including psychosocial and physical manifestations;   
 		(C) an assessment at the time of admission;   
 		(D) a discharge plan;   
 		(E) the name, dosage, and time of administration of a medication or treatment, the route of administration and site of injection, if other than by oral administration, of a medication, the patient's response, and the signature of the person who administered the medication or treatment; and   
 		(F) a record of any restraint used, showing the duration of usage;   
 	(7) court orders relevant to involuntary treatment;   
 	(8) laboratory reports;   
 	(9) x-ray reports;   
 	(10) consent forms;   
 	(11) operative report on in-patient and out-patient surgery including pre-operative and post-operative diagnosis, description of findings, techniques used, and tissue removed or altered, if appropriate;   
 	(12) anesthesia records including pre-operative diagnosis and post-anesthesia follow-up;   
 	(13) a pathology report, if tissue or body fluid is removed;   
 	(14) recovery room records;   
 	(15) labor record;   
 	(16) delivery record;   
 	(17) record of a neonatal physical examination and condition on discharge;   
 	(18) if the patient was in inpatient care for 48 hours or more, a discharge summary, prepared and signed by the attending physician or mid-level practitioner, that summarizes   
 		(A) significant findings and events of the patient's stay in the facility;   
 		(B) conclusions as to the patient's primary and any associated diagnoses; and   
 		(C) disposition of the patient at discharge including instructions, medications, and recommendations and arrangements for future care; and   
 	(19) if the patient was in inpatient care for less than 48 hours, a final discharge progress note signed by the attending physician or mid-level practitioner.   
(d) A facility must maintain procedures to protect the information in medical records from loss, defacement, tampering, or access by unauthorized persons. A patient's written consent is required for release of information that is not authorized to be released without consent. A facility may not use or disclose protected health information except as required or permitted by 45 C.F.R. Part 160, subpart C, and 45 C.F.R. Part 164, subpart E, revised as of October 1, 2005, and adopted by reference.   
(e) A record must be completed within 30 days of discharge and authenticated or signed by the attending physician, dentist, or other practitioner responsible for treatment. The facility must establish policies and procedures to ensure timely completion of medical records. A record may be authenticated by a signature stamp or computer key instead of the treating practitioner's signature if the practitioner has given a signed statement to the hospital administration that the practitioner is the only person who   
 	(1) has possession of the stamp or key; and   
 	(2) may use the stamp or key.   
(f) Medical records must be filed in accordance with a standard health information archival system to ensure the prompt location of a patient's medical record.   
(g) The facility must ensure that a transfer summary, signed by the physician or other practitioner responsible for treatment, accompanies the patient, or is sent by electronic mail or facsimile transmission to the receiving facility or unit, if the patient is transferred to another facility or is transferred to a nursing or intermediate care service unit within the same facility. The transfer summary must include essential information relative to the patient's diagnosis, condition, medications, treatments, dietary requirement, known allergies, and treatment plan.   
(h) Each facility subject to the provisions of this section, with the exception of an ambulatory surgical facility and a frontier extended stay clinic, must employ the services of a health information administrator who is registered by the American Health Information Management Association or a records technician who is accredited by the American Health Information Management Association to supervise the medical record service. If the administrator or technician is a consultant only, the administrator or technician must visit the facility not less than biannually to organize and evaluate the operation of the service and to provide written reports to the medical record service and the administration of the facility.   
(i) The facility must safely preserve patient records for at least seven years after discharge of the patient, except that   
 	(1) x-ray films or reproductions of films must be kept for at least five years after discharge of the patient; and   
 	(2) the records of minors must be kept until the minor has reached the age of 21 years, or seven years after discharge, whichever is longer.   
(j) If a facility ceases operation, the facility must inform the department within 48 hours before ceasing operations of the arrangements made for safe preservation of patient records as required in this section. The facility must have a policy for the preservation of patients' medical records in the event of the closure of the facility.   
(k) If ownership of the facility changes, the previous licensee and the new licensee shall, before the change of ownership, provide the department with written documentation that   
 	(1) the new licensee will have custody of the patient's records upon transfer of ownership, and that the records are available to both the new and former licensee and other authorized persons; or   
 	(2) arrangements have been made for the safe preservation of patients' records, as required in this section, and the records are available to the new and former licensees and other authorized persons.
7 AAC 12.780.  Radiological service.
(a) A facility that provides radiological services, with the exception of frontier extended stay clinics, must comply with the requirements of this section.   
(b) If a facility which provides radiological services does not have a radiologist on its staff, a radiologist must provide consultation services to the facility at least twice a year to assure high quality of the diagnostic radiological service.   
(c) A physician or a radiologist must have clinical responsibility for the radiological services.   
(d) Radiological services may be performed only upon the order of a person lawfully authorized to diagnose and treat illness.   
(e) If an x-ray examination is to be provided to a patient, a request by the attending physician for the x-ray examination must contain a diagnosis or a tentative diagnosis, or a concise statement of the reasons for the x-ray examination.   
(f) A report of a radiological examination must be filed in the patient's medical record and maintained in the radiology unit.   
(g) Diagnostic x-ray film processing must conform to the time and temperature recommendations of the manufacturer.   
(h) All individuals who are employed or involved in providing radiological services or who may be exposed to radiation shall wear devices that monitor radiation exposure.   
(i) A facility must keep records identifying employees who have been exposed to radiation and the amount of exposure for each employee.   
(j) A facility which provides nuclear medicine services must report the type of those services provided to the department and must conform, unless specifically excepted by law, to the applicable standards of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 10 C.F.R. Parts 0 - 170, as in effect April 30, 1983, and 
18 AAC 85
.   
(k) Radiation therapy may be given only under the direction of a radiation therapist using equipment which is specifically designed for radiation therapy.   
(l) A facility which uses x-ray equipment must conform to the radiation protection standards set out in 
18 AAC 85.010
 - 
18 AAC 85.770
.   
(m) In this section, "nuclear medicine services" means medical procedures that use radio isotopes or other atomic entities in the treatment or diagnosis of illness or disease.
7 AAC 12.790.  Laboratory service.
(a) A facility that provides laboratory services must comply with 
7 AAC 12.790
 - 
7 AAC 12.850
 and must meet the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part 493, Laboratory Requirements, as revised as of October 1, 2005, and adopted by reference.   
(b) A facility must have and maintain written procedures on the scope of onsite laboratory services necessary to support the facility's emergency and patient care services. For laboratory tests not performed in the facility, the facility must make arrangements with an approved laboratory to meet the requirements of this section. Information specifying the laboratory tests performed at the facility, and laboratory tests available under arrangement, must be provided to the medical staff.   
(c) A laboratory that provides blood or blood products must   
 	(1) have those products onsite or readily available from another source; and   
 	(2) maintain storage areas for those products under adequate control and supervision.
7 AAC 12.800.  Laboratory service policy and procedure.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.810.  Laboratory safety program.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.820.  Laboratory service proficiency test program.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.830.  Mailing of laboratory specimens.
A laboratory specimen may be referred and mailed only to an approved laboratory. The mailing containers to be used must be provided by the laboratory to which the specimens are sent.
7 AAC 12.840.  Supervision and direction of laboratory service.
(a) A laboratory must be under the supervision and direction of a physician, a laboratory specialist, or a medical technologist who   
 	(1) meets the applicable qualification requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part 493, adopted by reference in 
7 AAC 12.790
; and   
 	(2) is either employed by the laboratory or under contract to the laboratory.   
(b) If a medical technologist supervises the laboratory under contract, a consulting physician or laboratory specialist supervising the laboratory under contract must make quarterly visits to the laboratory and prepare a written evaluation with recommendations to the administrator and medical staff of the facility after each visit. For a consulting physician, up to two of the required visits and evaluations each year may be made by the physician's representative, who must be a medical technologist competent in one or more laboratory specialties. If a medical technologist supervises a laboratory as an employee of the laboratory, a consulting physician or a laboratory specialist under contract must make at least biannual visits to the laboratory and prepare a written evaluation and recommendations after each visit.   
(c) In this section, "laboratory specialties" include microbiology, serology, chemistry, hematology, and immunohematology.
7 AAC 12.850.  Laboratory testing service requirements.
Repealed.
7 AAC 12.860.  Risk management.
A facility, with the exception of home health agencies and hospice agencies that do not provide inpatient care on agency premises, must have a risk management program that has   
 	(1) provision for monitoring, evaluating, identifying, correcting, and reassessing care practices that negatively affect quality of care and services provided or result in accident or injury to a patient, resident, or staff, and provisions for documenting deficiencies found and remedial actions taken;   
 	(2) a preventive maintenance program that is designed to ensure the proper functioning, safety and performance of all electrical and mechanical equipment used in the care, diagnosis, and treatment of patients or residents, and for the physical plant including the electrical, plumbing, heating, and ventilation systems and their parts, including   
 		(A) implementation of policies that specify procedures and frequencies for the maintenance of all equipment and systems and all their parts, that meets or exceeds manufacturers' recommendations; and   
 		(B) documentation of the preventive maintenance that has occurred;   
 	(3) a procedure to investigate, analyze, and respond to patient or resident grievances that relate to patient or resident care;   
 	(4) a job-specific orientation program and an in-service training program for each employee that provides annual instruction in   
 		(A) policies and procedures for that service;   
 		(B) the employee's job responsibilities and the skills necessary to meet those responsibilities;   
 		(C) safety, fire, and disaster plans; and   
 		(D) principles and techniques of infection control;   
 	(5) provision of 24-hour emergency service by a physician, on site or on call, including posting the on-call physician's name and phone number at each nursing station; a frontier extended stay clinic or free-standing birth center is exempt from the requirements of this paragraph;   
 	(6) quarterly fire drills for each work shift, a record showing when each drill was held, and coordination with community or area mass casualty drills;   
 	(7) an annual review of written policies and procedures approved, signed, and dated by the administrator or the administrator's designee;   
 	(8) a training program by an instructor certified in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for all personnel who are engaged in patient care; the training program must include certification of employees by an approved organization;   
 	(9) a method of ensuring safe storage and transportation of gas cylinder tanks; and   
 	(10) a disaster plan developed in coordination with the local community to address the facility's response in case of a disaster; the plan must include community and state resources for staffing and supplies, and prioritized options to account for staffing shortages, disruptions in the supply line, community allocation of staff resources, telephone triage, and plans for establishing and maintaining communication with local, state, and federal emergency response agencies; the disaster plan must be in place on or before January 1, 2007, and must address response to   
 		(A) an earthquake, flood, major fire, tsunami, or other potential disaster relative to the area; and   
 		(B) a pandemic influenza outbreak; the plan must include plans for   
 		 	(i) separate entrances to buildings, and segregated seating, for patients with influenza-like illness; and   
 		 	(ii) other measures to contain or prevent transmission of the illness.
7 AAC 12.870.  Emergency care service.
(a) If a facility provides emergency care services, those services must be available 24 hours a day and must include   
 	(1) a determination by trained staff of whether a person entering the service should receive a medical, psychological, or social evaluation;   
 	(2) treatment of acute and potentially life-threatening disorders; and   
 	(3) supervision of medically ill persons by trained medical staff.   
(b) Guidelines for care of persons with mental or emotional problems must be present and readily accessible in the emergency room.   
(c) Guidelines or protocol for the treatment of and referral for substance abuse must be present and readily accessible in the emergency room.   
(d) A roster of names and telephone numbers of physicians, specialty consultants, poison control centers, and referral resources must be maintained in the emergency room.   
(e) The emergency care service must maintain a control register which contains, for each person served,   
 	(1) the person's name, or adequate identification;   
 	(2) the date and time of arrival;   
 	(3) an emergency record number for the person;   
 	(4) the nature of the person's complaint;   
 	(5) disposition; and   
 	(6) time of and condition on departure.   
(f) The emergency medical record must contain for each patient   
 	(1) adequate identification of the patient;   
 	(2) the time of and means by which the patient arrived, including by whom transported;   
 	(3) pertinent history of the patient's current condition;   
 	(4) diagnosis and treatment given;   
 	(5) condition of the patient on discharge or transfer; and   
 	(6) final disposition, including instructions given to the patient or the patient's family regarding necessary followup care.   
(g) The emergency care service must have a written plan, developed in cooperation with members of the community served, which specifies how it will deal with an extreme emergency in the community. The plan must include a triage process which describes the methods for the   
 	(1) marshalling of resources to deal with the emergency;   
 	(2) determination of the level of urgency of each case; and   
 	(3) determination of appropriate services to be performed.   
(h) The emergency care service must have available a communication system to maintain contact with the police department, rescue squads, and other emergency services of the community.   
(i) A critical access hospital shall, at a minimum, ensure that a physician or mid-level practitioner with training or experience in emergency care is on call and immediately available by telephone or radio contact and available on site within 30 minutes on a 24-hours per day basis.   
(j) A frontier extended stay clinic is exempt from the requirements of this section.
7 AAC 12.880.  Outpatient service.
(a) If a facility provides outpatient service, the responsibility of the outpatient service to the medical staff and the administration of the facility must be defined in writing.   
(b) The outpatient service must develop a written plan describing its treatment philosophy, objectives, and organization.   
(c) If the facility is one that performs outpatient surgery, the written policies and procedures must make provision for at least the following:   
 	(1) types of operative procedures that may be performed;   
 	(2) types of anesthesia that may be used;   
 	(3) pre-operative evaluation of the patient which meets the same standards as apply to inpatient surgery;   
 	(4) informed consent by a patient before treatment;   
 	(5) the delivery to a pathologist designated by the facility of all anatomical parts, tissues, or foreign objects that are removed from a patient, except those designated by the medical staff as not requiring a pathologist's report, and the filing of the pathologist's findings in the patient's medical record;   
 	(6) written instructions to a patient before surgery, which include   
 		(A) applicable restrictions on food and drugs that may be taken before surgery;   
 		(B) any special preparations to be made by the patient;   
 		(C) any post-operative requirements;   
 		(D) clear explanation that admission to the hospital may be required in the event of an unforeseen circumstance; and   
 	(7) examination of each patient by a physician before discharge.   
(d) A medical record must be maintained for each patient who receives care in the outpatient service.   
(e) If outpatient psychiatric followup treatment is provided, the outpatient service must comply with 
7 AAC 12.215
(d)(3).   
(f) If outpatient substance abuse followup treatment is provided, the outpatient service must comply with 
7 AAC 12.220
(c)(5) and 
7 AAC 70
.
7 AAC 12.890.  Rights of patients, clients, and residents.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in 
AS 47.30.825
, a patient, client, or a nursing facility resident has rights that include the following:   
 	(1) to associate and communicate privately with persons of the patient's, client's, or resident's choice;   
 	(2) to have reasonable access to a telephone to make and receive confidential calls;   
 	(3) to mail and receive unopened correspondence;   
 	(4) to be informed of the facility's grievance procedure for handling complaints relating to patient, client, or resident care;   
 	(5) to be free from physical or chemical restraints except as specified in 
AS 47.30.825
 or 
7 AAC 12.258
;   
 	(6) to be treated with consideration and recognition of the patient's, client's, or resident's dignity and individuality;   
 	(7) to confidentiality of the patient's, client's, or resident's medical records and treatment;   
 	(8) to be free from unnecessary or excessive medications;   
 	(9) to private visits by the patient's, client's, or resident's spouse, and to share a room if both spouses are patients, clients, or residents in the facility, unless medical reasons or space problems require separation;   
 	(10) to be informed in a language that the patient, client, or resident understands, before or at the time of admission and during the stay, of services that are available in the facility and their cost, including any costs for services or personal care items not covered by the facility's basic per diem rate or not covered under 42 U.S.C. 1395 - 1396v (Titles XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act);   
 	(11) to be informed, in a language that the patient, client, or resident understands, of the patient's, client's, or resident's medical condition by the practitioner responsible for treatment;   
 	(12) to refuse to participate in experimental research, psychosurgery, lobotomy, electroconvulsive therapy, or aversive conditioning;   
 	(13) to participate in the development of a plan of care, or discharge plan, and to receive instructions for self-care and treatment that include explanation of adverse symptoms and necessary precautions, as appropriate;   
 	(14) to be informed, in a language that the patient, client, or resident understands, of the rights listed in this subsection and of all the rules and regulations governing patient, client, or resident conduct and responsibility;   
 	(15) to be informed of the professional training and experience of the practitioner responsible for treatment;   
 	(16) to be informed by a practitioner of different options to the treatment recommended by the practitioner responsible for treatment, including the risks and benefits of each option.   
(b) A written notice that sets out the rights listed in (a) of this section must be posted in a conspicuous location, and a copy must be given to a patient, a client, a resident, a family member, or the legal representative of the patient, client, or resident and, at cost, to a member of the public.   
(c) A written notice that sets out the facility procedures for receipt and safekeeping of patients', clients', or residents' money and valuables must be posted in a conspicuous location. A copy of the notice must be given to a patient, client, or resident, or to a family member or legal representative of the patient, client, or resident. If requested, a copy of the notice must be provided, at cost, to a member of the public. A receipt for safeguarded money and valuables must be provided by the facility to the patient, client, or resident at the time of admission and following changes in the facility's procedures.   
(d) A facility must establish written procedures to assure delivery of complaints by patients, clients, or residents to the facility's administration. The administration shall acknowledge receipt of a patient's, client's, or resident's complaint, and take appropriate action.
7 AAC 12.900.  Physical plant.
(a) Each facility, with the exception of home health agencies, frontier extended stay clinics, and birth centers, must comply with the provisions of this section.   
(b) Any renovation, expansion, or new construction must comply with   
 	(1) the requirements of   Guidelines for Design and Construction of Hospital and Health Care Facilities, American Institute of Architects, 2001 edition, adopted by reference, that are applicable to the particular facility and services provided, as follows:   
 		(A) secs. 1 - 6 apply to all facilities;   
 		(B) sec. 7 applies to the general acute care hospitals, rural primary care hospitals, and critical access hospitals;   
 		(C) sec. 10 applies to rehabilitation hospitals;   
 		(D) sec. 8 applies to intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition and to nursing facilities;   
 		(E) sec. 9 applies to ambulatory surgical facilities;   
 		(F) secs. 7.1; 7.2, except 7.2. 15 and 7.2. ; 7.6; 7.17 - 7.19; 7.21; 7.22; 7.25 - 7.30, except 7.28. ; 8.3; and Table 2 apply to substance abuse hospitals; and   
 		(G) sec. 11 applies to psychiatric hospitals.   
 	(2) 
7 AAC 09.010
 - 
7 AAC 09.170
;   
 	(3) 
AS 18.60.580
 - 18.60.660;   
 	(4) 
AS 18.60.705
 - 18.60.740;   
 	(5) the   International Building Code, as adopted by reference in, and revised under, 
13 AAC 50.020
; and   
 	(6) the   International Mechanical Code, as adopted by reference in, and revised under, 
13 AAC 50.023
.   
(c) A facility must comply with municipal fire safety regulations, with 
13 AAC 50
 - 
13 AAC 55
, and with applicable National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards, including the following, which are adopted by reference:   
 	(1) NFPA 13: Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2002 edition;   
 	(2) NFPA 25: Standard for the Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Water-Based Fire Protection Systems, 2002 edition;   
 	(3) NFPA 10: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2002 edition;   
 	(4) NFPA 99: Standard for Health Care Facilities, 2005 edition;   
 	(5) NFPA 101: Life Safety Code, 2000 edition; if a waiver has been issued for a requirement of NFPA 101 under 42 C.F.R. 482.41 for a hospital, under 42 C.F.R. 485.623 for a critical access hospital, under 42 C.F.R. 483.70 for a nursing home, under 42 C.F.R. 483.470 for an intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition, or under 42 C.F.R. 416.44 for an ambulatory surgical center, the waiver will be considered a waiver of that requirement for purposes of this subsection.   
(d) A facility must specify in written procedures the maximum allowable water temperature at an outlet for patient bathing, showering, and washing, not to exceed requirements specified in (b)(1) of this section. The facility must have the capability to reduce water temperatures, and must specify in written procedures the safety factor expressed in minutes required to reduce water temperature for particular patient sensitivity due to illness or medication.   
(e) Bed capacity will be determined as follows:   
 	(1) available bed space in determining bed capacity for licensure includes   
 		(A) bed space in all nursing units, including intensive care units and minimal or self care units;   
 		(B) isolation rooms;   
 		(C) pediatrics units, including pediatrics bassinets and incubators located in the pediatrics department;   
 		(D) observation units equipped and staffed for overnight use;   
 		(E) space designed for, and that contains adequate space and equipment as described in (F) of this paragraph for, inpatient bed care, even if currently closed or assigned to easily convertible, non-patient uses, offices, or classrooms; and   
 		(F) space in areas which have the necessary fixed equipment adequate for patient care, including oxygen, suction, a lavatory with fixtures, and a patient closet, and which are accessible to a nurses' station which is exclusively staffed for inpatient bed care, even if originally designed for other purposes;   
 	(2) space which will not be counted in determining bed capacity includes   
 		(A) nurseries for newborn in the maternity department;   
 		(B) labor rooms;   
 		(C) recovery rooms;   
 		(D) emergency units;   
 		(E) preparation or anesthesia induction rooms;   
 		(F) rooms used for diagnostic or treatment procedures;   
 		(G) hospital staff bed areas, including accommodations for on-call staff;   
 		(H) corridors;   
 		(I) solaria, waiting rooms, and similar areas which are not permanently set aside, equipped, and staffed exclusively for inpatient bed care; and   
 		(J) unfinished space, which does not include an area which is finished except for movable equipment.   
(f) Bed space under construction on or after November 19, 1983 must contain,   
 	(1) for each patient, fixed available oxygen, suction, a bedlight, and a closet;   
 	(2) for every two patients, a lavatory with fixtures and adjacent toilet; and   
 	(3) for each bed in a multiple-bed room, cubicle curtain tracks.   
(g) Facilities in existence before January 1, 1995, will be allowed a variance of 10 square feet from the standards for square footage of patient rooms required by   Guidelines for Design and Construction of Hospital and Health Care Facilities, adopted by reference in (b)(1) of this section.   
(h) Except as provided in 
7 AAC 12.150
(h), the department may waive compliance with, or grant a variance from, a requirement in this section if the commissioner determines that an equivalent alternative is provided and the safety and well-being of patients is assured. If a facility wishes to obtain a waiver or variance, its governing body must apply in writing to the commissioner and must include in the application   
 	(1) the justification for the waiver;   
 	(2) an explanation of the reasons why the particular requirement cannot be satisfied;   
 	(3) a description of the equivalent alternative proposed; and   
 	(4) if the application for waiver involves fire safety or other municipal or state requirements, evidence that it has been reviewed by the appropriate municipal or state authorities.
7 AAC 12.910.  Contracts.
(a) A facility may contract with another facility or agent to perform services or provide resources to the facility. 
(b) Services regulated under this chapter that are provided by contract must meet the requirements of this chapter. 
(c) A contract for resources or services required by regulation and not provided directly by a facility must be in writing, must be dated and signed by both parties, and must 
 	(1) specify the respective functions and responsibilities of the contractor and the facility, and the frequency of onsite consultation by the contractor; 
 	(2) identify the type and frequency of services to be furnished; 
 	(3) specify the qualifications of the personnel providing services; 
 	(4) require documentation that services are provided in accordance with the agreement; 
 	(5) specify how and when communication will occur between the facility and the contractor; 
 	(6) specify the manner in which the care or services will be controlled, coordinated, supervised, and evaluated by the facility; 
 	(7) identify the procedures for payment for services furnished under the contract; and 
 	(8) include the current license or registration number of the contractor, if required by state statute or regulation. 
(d) Specialized hospitals, rural primary care hospitals, critical access hospitals, nursing homes, and intermediate care facilities for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition must have a signed agreement with a general acute care hospital for transfer of patients who require medical or emergency care beyond the scope of the ability or license of the facility.
7 AAC 12.920.  Applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
A facility must comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. If a conflict or inconsistency exists between codes or standards, the more restrictive provision applies.
7 AAC 12.925.  Accredited entities.
(a) An entity licensed under this chapter with a current accreditation from a nationally recognized organization with standards the department determines meet the intent of 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter may submit a written request to the department for a waiver of a biennial inspection by the department under 
AS 47.32.060
. The entity must submit a separate request for each licensing period during which the accrediting organization inspected the entity. The entity must include with the request a copy of the accrediting organization's most recent report of inspection, and a plan of correction and proof of corrective action if applicable.   
(b) The department will waive its biennial inspection under 
AS 47.32.060
 during the licensing period in which the accrediting organization conducted an inspection if the entity passed that inspection or has corrected any deficiencies noted by the accrediting organization. The inspection waiver will be in effect for the remainder of that licensing period unless revoked under (c) of this section.   
(c) Nothing in this section precludes the department from responding to a complaint received under 
AS 47.32.090
, and from taking any necessary action under 
AS 47.32.130
 or 47.32.140. If the entity fails to fulfill any plan of correction developed under 
AS 47.32.130
 or 47.32.140, the waiver from inspection will be revoked.
7 AAC 12.990.  Definitions.
In this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, 
 	(1) "administrator" means an employee appointed by the governing body to be responsible for the overall operation of a facility; 
 	(2) "advanced practice registered nurse" means a person who is authorized to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse under 
AS 08.68.100
, 08.68.850, and 
12 AAC 44.380
 - 
12 AAC 44.490
; 
 	(3) "alcoholism" means a chronic and progressive disease characterized by tolerance, physical dependency, or pathological organic changes which are consequences of alcohol ingestion; 
 	(4) "ambulatory surgical center" or "ambulatory surgical facility" means a facility described in 
AS 47.32.900
 and 
7 AAC 12.350
; 
 	(5) "anesthesia service" means the administration by authorized personnel of anesthesia of the type and in the manner required by the patient's condition; 
 	(6) "anesthesiologist" means a physician who has training and experience in the field of anesthesiology, and is certified or eligible for certification by the American Board of Anesthesiologists, Inc.; 
 	(7) "approved laboratory" means a laboratory that is 
 		(A) certified by the 
 		 	(i) federal government under the Clinical Laboratories Improvement Act of 1967, 42 U.S.C. 263(a) or Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.; 
 		 	(ii) College of American Pathologists; or 
 		 	(iii) Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals; or 
 		(B) operated by the department; 
 	(8) "birth center" means a free-standing birth center; 
 	(9) "bureau of vital statistics" means the bureau of vital statistics within the department; 
 	(10) "central service" means a service which provides cleaning, storing, and dispensing of supplies and equipment required for all aspects of patient care, diagnosis, and treatment; 
 	(11) "client" has the meaning given in 
 		(A) 
7 AAC 12.349
, if the facility is a hospice agency; and 
 		(B) 
7 AAC 12.449
, if the facility is a birth center; 
 	(12) "commissioner" means the commissioner of health and social services; 
 	(13) "completed application" means an application which is complete, signed, and accompanied by the appropriate fee; 
 	(14) "controlled substance" means a narcotic drug, a depressant, a hallucinogenic or stimulant drug as set out in the schedules in 
AS 11.71.140
 - 11.71.190, and any drug subject to the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, PL 91-513, as amended; 
 	(15) "detoxification" means the process in which a person recovers from intoxication and physiological reactions associated with withdrawal; 
 	(16) "dentist" means a person who is licensed as a dentist under 
AS 08.36
; 
 	(17) "department" means the Department of Health; 
 	(18) "dietetic service" means a service which provides nutritionally adequate food to patients; 
 	(19) "direct supervision" means the supervisor is present in the same building as the person being supervised and available for consultation or assistance; 
 	(20) "dispense" means selecting, measuring, packaging, labeling, and issuing a drug under an appropriate order; 
 	(21) "division of public health" means the division of public health, Department of Health; 
 	(22) "drug administration" means the act in which a single dose of a prescribed drug is given to a patient; 
 	(23) "drug room" means an area used exclusively for the storage, preservation, and control of bulk supply drugs; 
 	(24) "electroconvulsive therapy" means a form of treatment of mental disorders in which convulsions are produced by the passage of electric current through the brain; 
 	(25) "emergency service" means a medical service provided in response to the perceived individual needs of a patient for immediate medical care to prevent the loss of life or the aggravation of a physical or psychological illness or injury; 
 	(26) "facility" means a 
 		(A) general acute care hospital; 
 		(B) specialized hospital; 
 		(C) nursing home; 
 		(D) intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition; 
 		(E) ambulatory surgical center; 
 		(F) birth center; 
 		(G) mental health center; 
 		(H) home health agency; 
 		(I) rural primary care hospital; 
 		(J) critical access hospital; 
 		(K) long-term acute care hospital; and 
 		(L) frontier extended stay clinic; 
 	(27) "general acute care hospital" means a facility that provides inpatient hospitalization for medical and surgical care of acute illness or injury, perinatal care, and other services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(a); 
 	(28) "home health agency" means a facility described in 
7 AAC 12.500
; 
 	(29) "intermediate care facility for individuals with an intellectual disability or related condition" means a facility described in 
7 AAC 12.300
; 
 	(30) "intermediate nursing care" means nursing care which is provided on a regular basis to persons who do not require hospitalization or skilled nursing care, but who require services above the level of residential care as defined in 
7 AAC 43.280
, and includes the observation, assessment, and treatment of an individual with a long-term disability whose condition is relatively stable, and care for a person who is nearing recovery and discharge whose condition is relatively stable but who continues to require professional medical or nursing supervision; 
 	(31) "investigational drug" means a drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use for investigational purposes; 
 	(32) "licensed nurse" means a person who is licensed as a professional or practical nurse under 
AS 08.68
; 
 	(33) "licensee" means the owner of a licensed facility; 
 	(34) "linen" means sheets, pillow cases, towels, washcloths, bed spreads, scrub suits, blankets, and infant diapers, bands, and shirts; 
 	(35) "long-term care service" means a service which provides long-term nursing and other supportive care; 
 	(36) "medical asepsis" means the practice of techniques which reduce the level of microorganismic presence to reduce a risk of infection; 
 	(37) "medical record service" means a service which maintains medical records; 
 	(38) "medical service" means preventive, diagnostic, and therapeutic measures performed by or at the direction of a physician; 
 	(39) "medical staff" means physicians and other medical practitioners appointed by the governing body to practice within medical staff bylaws adopted under 
7 AAC 12.110
(b), 
7 AAC 12.210
(b), and 
7 AAC 12.465
(b); 
 	(40) "mental illness" means an organic, mental, or emotional impairment that has substantial adverse effects on an individual's ability to exercise conscious control of his actions or ability to perceive reality or to reason or understand; intellectual and developmental disabilities, epilepsy, drug addiction, and alcoholism do not by themselves constitute mental illness, although persons suffering from these conditions may also be suffering from mental illness; 
 	(41) "midwife" means a person who is 
 		(A) authorized to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse under 
12 AAC 44.400
 and who is certified to practice midwifery by a national certification body recognized under 
12 AAC 44.420
 and 
12 AAC 44.430
; 
 		(B) a direct-entry midwife certified to practice midwifery under 
12 AAC 14.100
 - 
12 AAC 14.120
; or 
 		(C) an apprentice who meets the requirements of 
12 AAC 14.130
 and is supervised as provided under 
12 AAC 14.220
; 
 	(42) "nursing home" means a facility described in 
7 AAC 12.250
; 
 	(43) "nursing service" means the provision of direct and extended care to patients by professional and nonprofessional personnel under the supervision of a registered nurse; 
 	(44) "nursing staff" means the licensed nurses, nurse's aides, and orderlies employed by a facility; 
 	(45) "occupational therapist" means a person who is a graduate of an occupational therapy program which is approved by a nationally recognized accrediting body, or who holds a current certificate as a registered occupational therapist, from the American Occupational Therapy Association; 
 	(46) "outpatient service" means a service which provides nonemergency health care to patients who remain in the facility less than 24 hours; 
 	(47) "patient" means a person who is receiving diagnostic, therapeutic or preventive health services or who is under observation or treatment for illness or injury, or care during and after pregnancy in a facility other than a birth center; 
 	(48) "patient-care personnel" means persons who provide direct patient-care services, including physicians, registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, rehabilitative professionals, aides, and orderlies; 
 	(49) "patient-teaching" means instruction of a patient in diet, medication, exercise, and other therapeutic measures to be taken by the patient upon discharge; 
 	(50) "perinatal service" means a service which provides medical care during pregnancy, labor, delivery, postpartum, and neonatal periods; 
 	(51) "pharmaceutical service" means a service which procures, stores, manufactures, compounds, dispenses, distributes, and administers drugs and includes the provision of pharmaceutical information to health professionals and patients; 
 	(52) "pharmacist" means a person who is registered as a pharmacist under 
AS 08.80
; 
 	(53) "pharmacy" means an area in a hospital where drugs are stored, compounded, and dispensed; 
 	(54) "physical plant" means the building and grounds of a facility; 
 	(55) "physical restraint" means a mechanical device used to control a patient's physical activity in order to protect the patient or others from injury; 
 	(56) "physical therapist" means a person who is licensed as a physical therapist under 
AS 08.84
; 
 	(57) "physical therapy assistant" means a person who is licensed as a physical therapy assistant under 
AS 08.84
; 
 	(58) "physical therapy service" means a service which provides physical therapy within the meaning of 
AS 08.84.190
(3); 
 	(59) "physician" means a person who is licensed as a doctor of medicine or osteopathy under 
AS 08.64
; 
 	(60) "physician assistant" means a person who is authorized to act as a physician assistant under 
AS 08.64.107
; 
 	(61) "progress note" means a written and dated notation by a member of the clinical staff which shows the care provided a patient and the response to that treatment for a stated period of time; 
 	(62) "psychiatric service" means a service which provides inpatient or outpatient care for patients with mental disorders; 
 	(63) "psychiatrist" means a person who is licensed as a doctor of medicine under 
AS 08.64
 and who has specialized training in psychiatry or is certified by the Board of Psychiatry and Neurology; 
 	(64) "psychological service" means a service offered by a psychologist, social worker, or other appropriate practitioner which provides therapeutic treatment of mental or emotional disorders or substance abuse; 
 	(65) "psychologist" means a person who is licensed as a psychologist under 
AS 08.86
; 
 	(66) "radiation therapist" means a person who is a physician who applies x-radiation, the ionizing radiation emitted from particle accelerators, or sealed sources of radioactive material to persons for therapeutic purposes; 
 	(67) "radiological service" means a service which provides x-ray or other external ionizing radiation for the detection, diagnosis, or treatment of human illness or injury; 
 	(68) "radiologist" means a person who is a specialist in the branch of medical science which deals with the use of radiant energy in diagnosis and treatment of disease; 
 	(69) "recreational therapy" means a program of treatment for patients with physical or mental disabilities which includes adaptive sports, dramatics, social activities, arts and crafts, or other similar activities; 
 	(70) "registered dietitian" means a person who is authorized by the Commission on Dietetic Registration to use the title Registered Dietitian (R.D.); 
 	(71) "registered nurse" means a person who is licensed to practice professional nursing under 
AS 08.68
; 
 	(72) "registered nurse anesthetist" means a person who is authorized to practice as a "nurse anesthetist" as defined in 
AS 08.68.850
(7); 
 	(73) "respiratory therapy service" means a service which provides diagnostic evaluation, treatment, management, and monitoring of patients with deficiencies or abnormalities of cardiopulmonary functions; 
 	(74) "scheduled drug" means a narcotic drug, a depressant, a hallucinogenic, or stimulant drug as set out in the schedules in 
AS 11.71.140
 - 11.71.190, and any drug subject to the Controlled Substance Act of 1970, PL 91-513, as amended; 
 	(75) "seclusion room" means a room specifically designed and organized to provide for temporary placement, care, and observation of a single patient with minimal sensory stimuli, maximum security and protection, and visual access to the patient by authorized persons; 
 	(76) "skilled care" or "skilled nursing care" means nursing care at the level described in 
7 AAC 43.180
; 
 	(77) "social worker" means an individual who has obtained a master's degree in social work from a school that is accredited or recognized by the Council on Social Work Education; 
 	(78) "social work service" means a service which assists staff, patients, and patient's families to understand and cope with emotional and social problems associated with health care; 
 	(79) "specialized hospital" means a facility described in 
7 AAC 12.200
; 
 	(80) "speech pathologist" means a person who is eligible for a Certificate of Clinical Competency granted by the American Speech and Hearing Association, or who meets the educational requirements for that certificate and is currently accumulating the experience required for certification; 
 	(81) "substance abuse" means frequent habitual consumption of damaging or potentially damaging chemical substances, including alcohol, which adversely affect the cognitive function; 
 	(82) repealed 5/24/2007; 
 	(83) "surgical service" means the performance of surgical procedures with the appropriate staff, space, equipment and supplies in a specially designated area; 
 	(84) "surgical suite" means an area that is designated for and restricted to the purpose of performance of surgical procedures; 
 	(85) "interdisciplinary team" means the team described in 
 		(A) 42 C.F.R. 483.20(d)(2)(ii), revised as of October 1, 1991, if the facility is a nursing facility; and 
 		(B) 
7 AAC 12.327
, if the facility is a hospice agency; 
 	(86) "mid-level practitioner" means the following health professionals authorized to practice under 
AS 08
: 
 		(A) physician assistant; 
 		(B) advanced practice registered nurse; 
 	(87) "rural primary care hospital" means a facility that has been determined by the department to meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.102
; 
 	(88) "critical access hospital" means a facility that has been determined by the department to meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 12.104
 or that has been certified as a critical access hospital under 42 C.F.R. 485.601 - 42 C.F.R. 485.645; 
 	(89) "critical care service" means a hospital service that provides specialized medical and nursing care to patients who are critically ill; 
 	(90) "short-term hospitalization" means hospitalization for a period that does not exceed, as determined on an annual, average basis, 96 hours per patient; 
 	(91) "long-term acute care hospital" means a hospital that provides long-term inpatient hospitalization for medical care of acute illness or injury and the services described in 
7 AAC 12.105
(c); 
 	(92) "community health center" means a facility or clinic providing outpatient services 
 		(A) for the prevention or diagnosis of illness, or the care and treatment of emergency illnesses or injured patients; and 
 		(B) that are provided principally for persons residing in an area of the state in or near which the facility or clinic is situated; 
 	(93) "credentialing" means the formal process, conducted by the medical staff of an entity, to delineate the privileges of, and evaluate the professional and technical competence of, an individual practitioner to provide specified levels of patient care, for the purpose of determining, based on criteria established by law and by the entity's bylaws, whether the individual is qualified for initial appointment to, or for continuing membership with, the entity's medical staff; 
 	(94) "federally qualified health center" means a facility that has been determined by the department to meet the requirements of 
7 AAC 43.870
; 
 	(95) "frontier extended stay clinic" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
; 
 	(96) "governing body" means the entity that establishes policy and is legally responsible for the overall operation of a facility; 
 	(97) "hospital" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
; 
 	(98) "laboratory" means a facility for the biological, microbiological, serological, chemical, immunohematological, hematological, biophysical, cytological, pathological, or other examination of materials derived from the human body for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of the health of, human beings; in this paragraph, "examination" includes procedures to determine, measure, or otherwise describe the presence or absence of various substances or organisms in the body; "laboratory" does not include a facility that only 
 		(A) collects or prepares specimens without examination; or 
 		(B) serves as a mailing service and does not perform examinations; 
 	(99) "licensed practical nurse" means a person who is licensed under 
AS 08
 for the practice of practical nursing within the meaning given in 
AS 08.68.850
; 
 	(100) "practitioner" means a health care provider licensed under 
AS 08
 who provides, prescribes, and oversees the health care services and medical services provided to patients in a health facility licensed under 
AS 47.32
 and this chapter within the authorization, course, and scope of that provider's license, practice, and privileges; 
 	(101) "rural health clinic" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
; "rural health clinic" includes a community health center and a federally qualified health center under 
7 AAC 43.870
; 
 	(102) "standing order" means a written order stipulating a specific treatment approach for patients who meet certain criteria or have a specific medical condition, thus eliminating the need for individual physician's orders for those patients, unless otherwise indicated; 
 	(103) "hospice agency" means a 
 		(A) program that primarily provides hospice services where a client lives or stays, that uses designated staff time and facility services, and that is distinct from other programs; or 
 		(B) place, including a freestanding structure or a separate part of a structure in which other services are provided, that primarily provides hospice services and a place of residence for clients; 
 	(104) "free-standing birth center" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.32.900
;
 	(105) "mental health professional" has the meaning given in 
AS 47.30.915
.
Chapter 13
 Assistance for Community Health Facilities
Article 1
 Scope
7 AAC 13.010.  Scope.
Subject to legislative appropriation and the provisions of 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110, the department will award grants under this chapter to assist in the operation of community health facilities in case of operational deficits.
Article 2
 Minimum Requirements
7 AAC 13.020.  Application procedures.
(a) Applicants for financial assistance under 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110 must apply on forms provided by the division.   
(b) The division will, in its discretion, assist an applicant in preparing the application and in complying with the requirements of this chapter.
7 AAC 13.025.  Service areas.
(a) A facility may serve one or more communities in a geographically contiguous area in which a mid-level practitioner or physician is not readily accessible.   
(b) When an applicant proposes to serve two or more communities through a single facility, the applicant shall   
 	(1) provide evidence to the department of the practicability of service arrangements and demonstrate to the department the existence of a transportation system linking the communities; and   
 	(2) include with the application a memorandum of agreement executed by the governing bodies of these communities describing the scope of services to be provided to the communities by the facility and the relationships and responsibilities of the communities to the facility.
7 AAC 13.030.  Governing boards and advisory boards.
(a) To be eligible to receive financial assistance under 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110, a facility must be either governed or advised by a board selected in accordance with the following criteria:   
 	(1) A governing or advisory board must be composed of at least five members who reside in the area served by the facility.   
 	(2) A majority of board members may not have been health care providers for the 12 months before appointment. No more than two members, or 40% of the membership, whichever is greater, may be health care providers.   
 	(3) To the extent practicable, a governing or advisory board must be representative of the geographic service area, including representatives of the   
 		(A) major racial and linguistic groups; and   
 		(B) various economic groups.   
 	(4) A representative of a particular subgroup or class of members need not be an actual member of the subgroup or class if the representative is designated by an organization composed primarily of members of the subgroup or class.   
 	(5) No employee of a grantee; or spouse, parent or child of an employee of a grantee; may be a member of the grantee's governing board.   
 	(6) If the facility is to serve two or more communities, each participating community must be represented on the governing or advisory board by members appointed by the city council, the Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) council, or the traditional council.   
(b) An advisory board shall participate in program planning, development, and evaluation, and shall advise the governing board on policy, administration procedures, and other areas of primary health care.   
(c) A governing board shall approve selection of the facility's program directors, mid-level practitioners, or subcontractors. If the governing board does not meet the criteria of (a) of this section, the facility staff may be selected or discharged only after consultation with an advisory board that does meet those criteria.
7 AAC 13.035.  Collection of fees for service.
(a) A facility shall establish a schedule of fees that it will charge for services. These fees must be sufficient to minimize the need for assistance from the department, but may not be unreasonable when compared to fees charged for similar services by other health care providers in the region.   
(b) The schedule of fees must be reviewed at least annually and modified as necessary.   
(c) The governing board of the facility shall assure that a diligent attempt is made to collect the established fees for services rendered.   
(d) The governing board of a facility shall, during the first year the facility receives grant money under this program, apply for medicaid rural health facility certification; enroll with the division of public assistance as a medicaid participant; and register as a provider with health insurance carriers. The facility shall maintain the certification and enrollment during subsequent grant years, and shall reapply or reenroll if the certification or enrollment is not initially granted or is allowed to lapse.
7 AAC 13.040.  Self-sufficiency.
In its grant application, a facility shall include a five-year plan for increasing self-sufficiency. A five-year plan for self-sufficiency must include   
 	(1) a summary, by source and amount of revenues and expenses, that the facility expects during each of the five years starting with the current state fiscal year;   
 	(2) an estimate of revenue-sharing under 
AS 29.89.030
, and other federal and state support that the facility could receive during each of the five years; and   
 	(3) an estimate of current taxable property values in the area or areas that the facility would serve under the grant.
7 AAC 13.045.  Coordination and nonduplication of services.
A facility receiving financial assistance under 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110 shall work with other programs in its service area providing the same kinds of services to assure that delivery of services is coordinated with the other programs, to minimize duplication of services, and to best meet the needs of the service area population. An applicant must describe its work with other people in its application for financial assistance.
7 AAC 13.050.  Capital expenditures.
A facility may not use financial assistance provided under 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110 to pay any capital cost without express advance approval by the department.
7 AAC 13.055.  Matching money.
A facility may use money granted under 
7 AAC 13
 to meet requirements for matching money funds to obtain or retain federal grants for operation of health facilities.
7 AAC 13.060.  Personnel.
A facility may use money granted under 
7 AAC 13
 to pay costs of salaries and other costs of mid-level practitioners if the division finds the salaries to be reasonable in light of salaries paid to other individuals in the region that perform comparable work. A facility may also use money granted under 
7 AAC 13
 to pay costs of minimum support staff necessary to assure efficient function of the facility.
Article 3
 Standards for Operation of a Community Health Facility
7 AAC 13.065.  Organization and administration.
(a) The governing board of a facility shall provide the division with a table of organization that   
 	(1) identifies all operating units of the program;   
 	(2) defines the roles and responsibilities of all facility staff; and   
 	(3) delineates the interrelationship of the governing board, the program director and all facility administrative and service staff.   
(b) The governing board of a facility shall provide the division with the name, address, and telephone number of the secretary of the governing board and the program director, and the name and address of each member of its governing and advisory boards.   
(c) The governing board shall annually review and update the information described in (a) and (b) of this section, and shall update the information at any time upon the request of the department.
7 AAC 13.070.  Policy and procedures manual.
(a) A facility must have a policy and procedures manual that is approved by the governing board. The governing board shall review the manual annually and revise the manual as necessary. If a facility has an advisory body as defined in 
7 AAC 13.030
(b), adoption, review, and revision of the manual must be based upon recommendations of the advisory board.   
(b) Provisions in the policy and procedures manual must be internally consistent and consistent with regulations of the department.   
(c) A facility shall maintain written policies and procedures in the following areas:   
 	(1) fiscal administration, including provisions required under 
7 AAC 13.075
;   
 	(2) personnel administration, including provisions required under 
7 AAC 13.080
;   
 	(3) evaluation and research, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.085
;   
 	(4) quality assurance and utilization review, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.090
;   
 	(5) service delivery to the persons with physical disabilities, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.100
;   
 	(6) serving major language and cultural population subgroups, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.100
;   
 	(7) 24-hour availability of emergency services according to 
7 AAC 13.100
;   
 	(8) ensuring coordination and continuity of services to clients, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.105
;   
 	(9) ensuring privacy in facilities, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.110
;   
 	(10) patient records, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.115
 - 
7 AAC 13.120
;   
 	(11) rights of patients, including the provisions of 
7 AAC 13.130
 - 
7 AAC 13.135
;   
 	(12) a plan for management of pharmaceuticals stored in the facility; and   
 	(13) a plan for procurement and inventory management.
7 AAC 13.075.  Fiscal administration.
To maximize revenues and to ensure proper fiscal management, the governing board or the program director of a facility shall   
 	(1) prepare and maintain a formal budget;   
 	(2) maintain fiscal records and provide fiscal reports to the department on forms provided by the department;   
 	(3) provide for an audit at least once every two years;   
 	(4) develop a fee schedule; and   
 	(5) establish procedures within the limits set by 
7 AAC 13.100
(g) to maximize collection of fees from patients and third-party insurers.
7 AAC 13.080.  Personnel administration.
(a) A facility must have written and functioning policies and procedures to ensure consistency in personnel administration and staff competency in carrying out assigned tasks. These policies and procedures must include   
 	(1) job descriptions for paid and volunteer staff members, including, for each position   
 		(A) a description of the duties, specific tasks and responsibilities;   
 		(B) the salary range;   
 		(C) a statement of minimum qualifications describing necessary training, experience, and other qualifications such as licensure; and   
 		(D) the position title of the immediate supervisor of the position;   
 	(2) provisions for yearly written evaluations of all staff;   
 	(3) procedures for recruitment and screening of job applicants;   
 	(4) a description of the facility's salary structure, including salary ranges and the method of determining salary increases; and   
 	(5) a requirement that tasks which are restricted by law to specific disciplines will be performed only by qualified individuals.   
(b) The governing board of a facility may not, without prior approval of the division, authorize changes in or exceptions to written job descriptions which materially alter the scope of the facility's program during the period of a grant.   
(c) The department will not approve a grant unless written job descriptions for clinic staff are approved by the division.
7 AAC 13.085.  Program evaluation.
(a) A facility shall develop procedures necessary to evaluate the program and shall conduct an evaluation annually.   
(b) The evaluation must include   
 	(1) information about demographic characteristics;   
 	(2) assessment of community and client reaction to services, which may include questionnaires, surveys, or board reports; and   
 	(3) progress report for the five-year plan for increasing self-sufficiency.
7 AAC 13.090.  Quality assurance.
(a) A facility shall have systematic procedures for the review of the quality of care and the use of services and facilities.   
(b) The governing board of a facility, or its program director, shall maintain written descriptions of current quality-assurance procedures and shall review and revise the description annually.   
(c) If a facility employs a mid-level practitioner, the mid-level practitioner's collaborating physician, if any, must perform on-site quality reviews at least quarterly.
7 AAC 13.095.  Types of services and populations to be served.
(a) A facility shall serve the following populations, in the following area of priority, to the extent that primary care services are not available to those populations from other providers:   
 	(1) acutely ill and injured persons;   
 	(2) chronically ill and disabled persons;   
 	(3) persons seeking health maintenance, health promotion or preventive services.   
(b) A facility shall provide the following services to the above-listed populations in the following order of priority:   
 	(1) diagnostic services within the limits imposed by the availability of diagnostic equipment and any plan of collaboration between the mid-level practitioner and the collaborating physician;   
 	(2) treatment services within the practitioner's scope of practice;   
 	(3) referral services; and   
 	(4) preventive services.
7 AAC 13.100.  Availability and accessibility of services.
(a) A facility shall make services available at times that enable service area residents to use services.   
(b) The governing board of a facility or the program director shall, at all times,   
 	(1) maintain written procedures stating how residents will have access to 24-hour emergency services;   
 	(2) assure that the facility provides regular services on evenings and weekends if the need for those services is determined by the governing board; and   
 	(3) make provisions for serving persons that cannot come to the center.  
(c) The governing board or program director of a facility shall make methods of obtaining services known to other human-services agencies and to area residents.   
(d) The governing board or program director of a facility shall assure that facility services are listed in the public telephone directory, if one exists.   
(e) If facility services are not accessible to persons with physical disabilities, the governing board or program director of a facility shall arrange alternative means for these individuals to receive services.   
(f) A facility must have procedures to make interpreter services available in the languages of the major subgroups in the service area.   
(g) A facility may not deny services to any person because of inability to pay.   
(h) A facility shall provide space for confidential interviews.
7 AAC 13.105.  Continuity of services.
The program director of a facility shall document coordination of services within the facility and between community agencies and the facility through such mechanisms as referral agreements and case conferences.
7 AAC 13.110.  Health and safety requirements.
A facility shall comply with applicable state and local fire, health, and safety ordinances, regulations, and statutes.
7 AAC 13.115.  Patient records.
(a) A facility shall maintain an organized records system that contains the following for each patient:   
 	(1) a description of history, physical findings, and laboratory results for each visit;   
 	(2) an assessment and, where appropriate, a diagnosis;   
 	(3) a treatment plan; and   
 	(4) a record of medications prescribed.   
(b) Facility staff shall complete a patient record at the time of the visit. The person recording a visit shall sign and date the entry.
7 AAC 13.120.  Records retention.
(a) A facility shall retain administrative records in accordance with 
7 AAC 78.250
.   
(b) Patient records of the facility must be retained for seven years following the discharge of the patient. However, the records of a patient under 19 years of age shall be kept until at least two years after the patient reaches age 19, or until seven years after the discharge of the patient, whichever is later.
7 AAC 13.125.  Waiver of requirements.
(a) The commissioner of the department will, in his or her discretion, waive a requirement of 
7 AAC 13
 if a facility establishes an alternative method of satisfying the requirement.   
(b) The governing board of a facility shall apply for waiver in writing to the department. The application must include   
 	(1) a statement of the requirement for which a waiver is requested;   
 	(2) an explanation of the reasons why the requirement cannot be satisfied; and   
 	(3) a description of the alternative method proposed to satisfy the requirement for which the waiver is requested.   
(c) The department will reply in writing to all requests for waivers within 30 days after receipt. The department will grant or deny a waiver, or will request that the governing board take some further action while the department defers further consideration of the application until that action is taken.
Article 4
 Patient Rights
7 AAC 13.130.  Confidentiality.
(a) All records and information about a patient must be kept confidential by the facility, as provided in (b) of this section, unless the facility obtains a written consent under (c) of this section for release of information.   
(b) Information regarding a patient may be released without consent only to   
 	(1) a person authorized by court order;   
 	(2) health care providers if a medical emergency arises;   
 	(3) research projects authorized by the governing board, if provision is made to preserve anonymity in the reported results;   
 	(4) other persons to whom disclosure is required by law.   
(c) A facility may release records and information regarding a patient to the patient or to an individual for whom the patient, or legally designated representative of the patient, has given written consent to disclosure. The consent must include the   
 	(1) patient's name;   
 	(2) first and last dates of service authorization;   
 	(3) information to be released;   
 	(4) recipient of the information; and   
 	(5) signature of the patient or the legally designated representative of the patient.   
(d) The governing board of a facility shall develop a plan for safeguarding confidential information and submit it to the division as part of its application.
7 AAC 13.135.  Grievance procedures.
The governing board of a facility shall establish a grievance procedure by which a patient may seek redress of grievances. A facility shall file a copy of the grievance procedure with the department, and conspicuously post a copy at the facility.
7 AAC 13.140.  Compliance.
Failure to maintain the standards of 
7 AAC 13
 will, in the discretion of the department, be a basis for suspension or termination of a grant, as described in 
7 AAC 78.290
.
Article 5
 General Provisions
7 AAC 13.845.  Criteria for application review.
In addition to criteria established by 
7 AAC 78.100
, or other law or regulation, the department will use the following criteria in review of an application for assistance under 
7 AAC 13
:   
 	(1) the feasibility of the applicant's plan for self-sufficiency under 
7 AAC 13.040
;   
 	(2) the number of people in the applicant's service area; and   
 	(3) the sufficiency of the facility's fees for services to minimize the need for assistance.
7 AAC 13.900.  Definitions.
As used in this chapter 
 	(1) "community" means a town or village with a governing authority which is a city council, an Indian Reorganization Act (IRA) council or a traditional council; 
 	(2) "department" means the Department of Health; 
 	(3) "division" means the division of public health in the department; 
 	(4) "facility" means a community health facility operated by an eligible applicant described in 
7 AAC 78.030
; 
 	(5) "health care provider" means an individual who provides direct patient care services or ancillary care, or is involved in related activities such as health planning, administration, or supplies; 
 	(6) "mid-level practitioner" means a nurse practitioner or physician's assistant; 
 	(7) "operating costs" mean expenses incurred for equipment items costing less than $500, salaries, other employee costs, travel, communications, equipment repairs, contracts, supplies, rents and utilities, staff and board training; 
 	(8) "operational deficit" means that portion of the operating costs of a health facility which cannot be met by revenues of the facility, including fees and all other sources of income except the financial assistance provided under 
AS 18.25.070
 - 18.25.110; 
 	(9) "program director" means the individual responsible for ongoing operation of a facility; 
 	(10) "readily accessible" means reachable within a period of approximately 30 minutes; 
 	(11) "referral services" mean arrangements between the mid-level practitioner at the facility, and the hospitals or physicians to whom patients are sent for consultation or more definitive diagnosis and treatment; 
 	(12) "service area" means the geographic area described by the applicant and approved by the department as the area for which services will be or are being provided.
