<<<PAGE 1>>>
CHAPTER 23-17.4
HOSPICE PROGRAMS
23-17.4-01. Definitions.
In this chapter, unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires:
1. "Bereavement"  means  the  period  of  time  during  which  the  hospice  patient's  family  
experiences and adjusts to the death of the hospice patient.
2. "Department" means the department of health and human services.
3. "Hospice  care  team"  means  an  interdisciplinary  working  unit  including  the  hospice  
patient and the hospice patient's family , the attending physician, the medical director of 
the  hospice  program,  a  registered  professional  nurse  as  defined  under  chapter  
43-12.1, a social worker licensed pursuant to chapter 43 -41 providing medical social  
services,  and  trained  hospice  volunteers.  Providers  of  special  services,  including  a  
spiritual counselor, a pharmacist, a registered dietitian, or professionals in the field of  
mental  health  may  be  included  on  the  interdisciplinary  team  as  determined  to  be  
appropriate by the hospice program.
4. "Hospice patient" means a person diagnosed as terminally ill with a prognosis of an  
anticipated life expectancy of six months or less, who has received admission into the  
hospice  program.  The  diagnosis  and  prognosis  must  be  certified  by  the  attending  
physician.
5. "Hospice patient's family" means the immediate kin of the patient, including a spouse,  
parent, stepparent, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, child, or stepchild. Additional 
relatives  or  individuals  with  significant  personal  ties  to  the  hospice  patient  may  be  
included in the hospice patient's family for the purposes of this chapter.
6. "Hospice  program"  means  a  coordinated  program  of  home  and  inpatient  care  
providing hospice services directly, or through agreement, using a hospice care team.
7. "Hospice service plan" means the plan detailing the specific hospice services offered  
by a hospice program and the administrative and direct care personnel responsible for  
those services.
8. "Hospice services"  means  palliative  and  supportive  medical,  health,  and  other  care  
provided to hospice patients and their families to meet the special needs arising out of  
the  physical,  emotional,  spiritual,  and  social  stresses  experienced  during  the  final  
stages of illness and during dying and bereavement so that when and where possible  
the hospice patient may remain at home, with homelike inpatient care utilized only if  
and while it is necessary .
9. "Palliative care" means treatment which is intended to achieve relief from, reduction of,  
or elimination of pain and other troubling symptoms, rather than treatment aimed at  
investigation and intervention for the purposes of cure or prolongation of life.
10. "Volunteer services" means the services provided by individuals who have successfully 
completed a training program developed by a licensed hospice program.
23-17.4-02. Hospice program license required.
No person may establish, conduct, or maintain a hospice program, or advertise or present  
itself to the public as a hospice program, without first obtaining a hospice program license from  
the department.
23-17.4-03. Scope of license.
A hospice program license is valid only for the premises, person, or facility named in the  
application  for  license  and  is  not  transferable  or  assignable.  The  license  must  be  renewed  
annually. The license must be displayed in a conspicuous place inside the hospice program  
office.
Page No. 1
<<<PAGE 2>>>
23-17.4-04. Application for license.
An application for issuance or renewal of a hospice program license must be made to the  
department upon forms provided by the department. The application must contain information  
reasonably required by the department. The application must be accompanied by:
1. The hospice service plan which must include:
a. Identification of the persons administratively responsible for the program, and any  
affiliation  of  the  persons  with  a  licensed  home  health  agency ,  hospital,  skilled 
nursing home, intermediate care facility , or other health care provider.
b. The estimated average monthly patient census.
c. The proposed geographic area the hospice program will serve.
d. A  listing  of  hospice  services  provided  directly  by  the  hospice,  and  hospice  
services provided indirectly through a contractual agreement.
e. The  name  and  qualifications  of  persons  or  entities  under  contract  to  provide  
indirect hospice services.
f. The name and qualifications of persons providing direct hospice services, with  
the exception of volunteers.
g. A description of how the hospice program plans to use volunteers in the provision  
of hospice services.
h. A description of the hospice program's recordkeeping system.
2. A financial  statement  containing  information  determined  to  be  appropriate  by  the  
department.
3. A uniform license fee determined by the department.
23-17.4-05. Inspection of hospice program.
Prior to the issuance or renewal of a hospice program license, the department shall inspect  
the hospice program for compliance with the standards established pursuant to this chapter. T o  
the  maximum  extent  possible,  the  department  shall  coordinate  inspections  made  under  this  
chapter  with  those  made  for  the  purposes  of  determining  compliance  with  other  licensing  
statutes or rules.
23-17.4-06. Issuance of license - Renewal.
Upon  receipt  of  a  completed  application  for  issuance  or  renewal  of  a  hospice  program  
license, the department shall issue or renew a license if the department finds the applicant in  
compliance with this chapter and the minimum standards established pursuant to this chapter.
23-17.4-07. Basic requirements for hospice program.
A hospice program must comply with the following basic standards:
1. The  hospice  program's  services  must  include  physician  services,  nursing  services,  
medical  social  services,  counseling,  and  volunteer  services.  The  services  must  be  
coordinated with those of the hospice patient's primary or attending physician.
2. The  hospice  program  must  coordinate  its  services  with  professional  and  
nonprofessional services already in the community . The hospice program may contract 
for elements of its services; however, direct patient contact and overall coordination of  
hospice services must be maintained by the hospice care team. Any contract entered  
into between a hospice program and a health care facility or service provider must  
specify  that  the  hospice  program  retains  the  responsibility  for  planning  and  
coordinating hospice services and care on behalf of a hospice patient and the hospice  
patient's family. No hospice which contracts for any hospice service may charge fees  
for  services  provided directly by the hospice care team  which duplicate contractual  
services provided to the individual hospice patient or family .
3. The hospice care team is responsible for the coordination of home and inpatient care.
4. The  hospice  program  must  have  a  medical  director  who  is  a  physician  licensed  
pursuant to chapter 43 -17. The medical director has overall responsibility for medical  
policy  in  relation  to  the  care  and  treatment  of  hospice  patients  and  their  families  
Page No. 2
<<<PAGE 3>>>
rendered by the hospice care team and must consult and cooperate with the hospice  
patient's attending physician.
5. The  hospice  program  must  provide  the  services  of  a  registered  nurse,  as  defined  
under chapter 43 -12.1, to supervise and coordinate the palliative and supportive care  
for patients and families provided by the hospice care team.
6. The  hospice  program  must  identify  a  member  of  the  hospice  team  who  will  be  
responsible  for  providing  for  coordination  and  administration  of  the  hospice  service 
plan for patients and families.
7. The hospice program must have a bereavement program to provide a continuum of  
supportive services for the family.
8. The hospice program must foster independence of the hospice patient and the hospice 
patient's family by providing training, encouragement, and support so that the patient  
and family can care for themselves as much as possible.
9. The hospice program may not impose the dictates of any value or belief system on  
hospice patients or their families.
10. The hospice program must clearly define admission criteria. Decisions on admission  
must be made by a hospice care team and are dependent upon the expressed request  
of the patient; however, if the attending physician certifies that the patient is unable to  
request admission, a family member may voluntarily request and receive admission of  
the patient and family on the patient's behalf. Any request for admission must include  
written evidence of informed consent signed by the person making the request, which  
contains  an explanation,  in  plain  language  of  the nature and  limitations  of  hospice  
care.
11. The  hospice  program  must  keep  accurate,  current,  and  confidential  records  on  all  
hospice patients and their families. Upon reasonable notice, the records must be made 
available to duly authorized officers or employees of the department.
12. The hospice program must use the services of trained volunteers.
13. The  hospice  program  must  consist  of  both  home  care  and  inpatient  care  which  
incorporate the following characteristics:
a. The  home  care  component  must  be  the  primary  form  of  care,  and  shall  be  
available on a part-time, intermittent, regularly scheduled basis and on an on -call, 
around-the-clock basis according to patient and family need.
b. The inpatient component may be used only if and while it is necessary . If feasible, 
inpatient care should closely approximate a homelike environment, and provide  
overnight family visitation within the facility .
23-17.4-08. Rules and standards.
1. The  department  shall  adopt  rules  establishing  minimum  standards  for  hospice  
programs, including:
a. Compliance with the standards of section 23-17.4-07.
b. The number and qualifications of persons providing direct hospice services.
c. The qualifications of those persons or entities contracted with to provide indirect  
hospice services.
d. Palliative and supportive care and bereavement counseling provided to hospice  
patients and their families.
e. Hospice services provided on an inpatient basis.
f. Utilization review of hospice patient care.
g. The quality of care provided to hospice patients.
h. Procedures for the accurate and centralized maintenance of records on hospice  
services provided to hospice patients and their families.
i. The  use  of  volunteers  in  the  hospice  program,  and  the  training  of  those  
volunteers.
j. The rights of the hospice patient and the hospice patient's family.
2. T o  avoid  duplication  in  rules,  the  department  shall  incorporate  rules  applicable  to  
facilities licensed by the state as hospitals, skilled nursing homes, intermediate care  
facilities, and organizations licensed by the state as home health agencies which are  
Page No. 3
<<<PAGE 4>>>
also applicable to hospice programs in the rules to govern hospices. A person who  
seeks to license, establish, or operate a hospice program and who has a pre-existing  
valid license to operate a hospital, skilled nursing home, intermediate care facility , or  
home health agency is in compliance with those rules which are applicable to both a  
hospice and the facility for which it has a license.
23-17.4-09. Inspection and investigation authority.
Any duly authorized officer or employee of the department may make necessary inspections 
and  investigations  to  determine  the  state  of  compliance  with  the  provisions  of,  and  rules  
adopted  pursuant  to,  this  chapter.  The  department  may  inspect  any  program  which  the  
department has reason to believe is offering or advertising itself as a hospice program without a  
license, but no inspection of any hospice program may be made without the permission of the  
owner  or  person  in  charge  unless  a  warrant  is  first  obtained  authorizing  inspection.  Any  
application for issuance or renewal of a hospice program license constitutes permission for any  
inspection of the hospice program for which the license is sought in order to facilitate verification  
of the information submitted on or in connection with the application.
23-17.4-10. Denial, suspension, or revocation of license.
Denial,  suspension,  or  revocation  of  a  hospice  program  license  by  the  department  for  
noncompliance with this chapter is governed by chapter 28-32.
Page No. 4