
.04 Supervision. | Library of Maryland Regulations
Skip to main content
Library of
Maryland Regulations
Toggle mobile menu
Navigation
Library of Maryland Regulations
Code of Maryland Regulations
Title 10 MARYLAND DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Subtitle 27 BOARD OF NURSING
Chapter 11 Delegation of Nursing Functions
.04 Supervision.
Code of Maryland Regulations
.04 Supervision.
A.
 The nurse shall determine the required degree of supervision after an evaluation of appropriate factors including, but not limited to the:
(1)
 Stability of the condition of the client;
(2)
 Training of the individual to whom the nursing task is being delegated;
(3)
 Nature of the nursing task being delegated;
(4)
 Orientation of the unlicensed individual, certified nursing assistant, or medication technician to the specific patient environment;
(5)
 Ability of the unlicensed individual, certified nursing assistant, or medication technician to perform the delegated nursing task in a safe and competent manner; and
(6)
 Reevaluation of the client's health status.
B.
 The delegating nurse shall be readily available when delegating a nursing task to an unlicensed individual, certified nursing assistant, or medication technician.
C.
 For the client whose health status meets the criteria as stated in 
Regulation .03F of this chapter
, the registered nurse managing the case shall make a supervisory on-site visit to the client at a minimum of every 45 days to:
(1)
 Evaluate the client's health status;
(2)
 Evaluate the nursing acts to be delegated;
(3)
 Determine whether health goals are being met;
(4)
 Evaluate the continued competence of the certified nursing assistant, unlicensed individual, or medication technician to perform the delegated nursing task; and
(5)
 Evaluate the environment in which the delegated task is performed.
D.
 For the client whom the registered nurse has determined does not meet the criteria as stated in 
Regulation .03F of this chapter
, the registered nurse shall:
(1)
 Make a supervisory on-site visit to the client at least every 2 weeks to evaluate the criteria described in 
§C of this regulation
; and
(2)
 Determine whether the:
(a)
 Nursing tasks may be safely delegated in that setting and given the client's clinical status; and
(b)
 Nursing assistant, unlicensed individual, or medication technician is competent to perform the nursing tasks to be delegated.
Cross References
10.07.14.02B(24)(c)
10.09.81.31B(5)
10.27.11.03D(3)
Previous
.03 Criteria for Delegation.
Next
.05 Nursing Functions.
This version of the laws and codes on this website is licensed under the 
CC BY-NC-SA 4.0
 license with copyright held by the State of Maryland.
This version of the laws and codes on this website will be dedicated to the public domain under the 
CC0 1.0
 license 180 days after publication.
      Please do not scrape. Instead, bulk download the CC BY-NC-SA-4.0 
HTML
 or 
XML
 or CC0 
HTML
 or 
XML
.
Powered by the non-profit 
Open Law Library
.
