<<<PAGE 1>>>
1  
 Title 15:  Mississippi State Department of Health 
Part 16: Health Facilities   
Subpart 1:  Health Facilities Licensure and Certification 
CHAPTER 1 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR HOSPICE 
 
Subchapter 1 GENERAL 
 
Rule 1.1.1 Every Hospice located inside the boundaries of a municipality shall comply with 
all local municipal codes and ordinances applicable thereto.  In addition, each 
hospice shall comply with all applicable federal laws and state laws inclusive of 
Mississippi Code Annotated (41-85-1) through (41-85-25). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 2 LEGAL AUTHORITY 
 
Rule 1.2.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards – The Mississippi 
State Department of Health, Bureau of Health Facilities, Licensure and 
Certification adopts the following rule governing the licensing and regulation of 
hospices as authorized by the Mississippi Code Annotated Section 41-85-1 
through 41-85-25 and in accordance with House Bill 379 enacted by the Regular 
1995 Session of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi known as the 
“Mississippi Hospice Law of 1995”. The Bureau of Health  Facilities, Licensure 
and Certification amends the following regulations which will govern the 
licensing of hospice agencies licensed on or after adoption of this rule. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.2.2 Effective date of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Hospice - 
This rule shall replace and supersede the rule adopted on August 21, 1995, except 
that the rule adopted on August 21, 1995 and reference in the Mississippi Register 
shall continue to regulate those hospice agencies licensed on or before adoption of 
this rule, and shall continue to regulate these agencies for 90 days from adoption 
of this rule.  Effective 30 days from the adoption of this rule, the provisions of this 
rule shall govern all hospice agencies, regardless of the date of issuance of 
license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.2.3 Fire Safety – No freestanding hospice may be licensed until it shows 
conformance to the safety regulations providing minimum standards for 
prevention and detection of fire as well as for protection of life and property 
against fire. 
 
<<<PAGE 2>>>
2  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 3  DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 1.3.1 Unless a different meaning is required by the context, the following terms   
 as used in these rules and regulations shall have the meaning hereinafter   
 respectively ascribed to them: 
 
1. Administrator - Means the person, designated by the governing body, who is 
responsible for the management of the overall operation of the hospice. 
 
2. Advance Directives – Directive from the patient/family (see definition of family) 
such as a durable power of attorney for health care, a directive pursuant to patient 
self-determination initiatives, a living will, or an oral directive which either states 
a person’s choices for medical treatment or, in the event the person is unable to 
make treatment choices, designates who shall make those decisions. 
 
3. Attending/Primary Physician – A doctor of medicine or osteopathy licensed to 
practice medicine in the State of Mississippi, who is designated by the patient or 
responsible party as the physician responsible for his/her medical care. 
 
4. Bereavement Services – Organized services provided under the supervision of a 
qualified counselor (see definition) to help the family cope with death related 
grief and loss. 
 
5. Autonomous – Means a separate and distinct operational entity which functions 
under its own administration and bylaws, either within or independently of a 
parent organization. 
 
6. Bed Capacity – Means the largest number which can be installed or set up in the 
freestanding hospice at any given time for use of patients.  The bed capacity shall 
be based upon space designed and/or specifically intended for such use whether or 
not the beds are actually installed or set up. 
 
7. Bed Count – Means the number of beds that are actually installed or set for 
patients in freestanding hospice at a given time. 
 
8. Branch Office/Alternate Site –A location or site from which a hospice agency 
provides services within a portion of the total geographic area served by the 
parent agency. The branch is a part of the parent hospice agency and is located 
within the 50 mile radius of the parent agency and shares administration and 
supervision. No branch office site shall be opened unless the parent office has had 
full licensure for the immediately preceding 12 months and has admitted 10 
patients within the last twelve (12) months. A branch office does not extend the 
Geographic Service Area of the Parent Agency. 
 
<<<PAGE 3>>>
3  
9. Bureau – Mississippi State Department of Health, Bureaus of Health Facilities, 
Licensure and Certification. 
 
10. Care Giver – The person whom the patient designates to provide his/her 
emotional support and/or physical care. 
 
11. Chaplain – Means an individual representative of a specific spiritual belief who 
is qualified by education received through accredited academic or theological 
institutions, and/or experience thereof, to provide counseling and who serves as a 
consultant for and/or core member of the hospice care team. 
 
12. Change of Ownership – Means but is not limited to, intervivos, gifts, transfers, 
leases, cash and/or stock transactions or other comparable arrangements whenever 
the person or entity acquires a majority interest (fifty percent (50%) or more) of 
the facility or service.  Changes of ownership from partnerships, single 
proprietorships or corporations to another form of ownership are specifically 
included.  Provided, however, “Change of Ownership” shall not include any 
inherited interest acquired as a result of a testamentary instrument or under the 
laws of descent and distribution of the State of Mississippi.  The change of IRS 
exemption status also constitutes a change of ownership. 
 
13. Community – A group of individuals or a defined geographic area served by a 
hospice. 
 
14. Continuous Home Care – Care provided by the hospice during a period of crisis 
as necessary to maintain the terminally ill individual at home.  A minimum of 
eight hours of care must be furnished on a particular day to be considered 
continuous home care.  Nursing care must be provided for more than one-half of 
the period of care and must be provided by either a registered nurse or licensed 
practical nurse.  Services may be provided by a homemaker or hospice aide to 
supplement the nursing care.  When determining the necessity for continuous 
home care, a registered nurse must complete/document a thorough assessment and 
plan of care that includes participation of all necessary disciplines to meet the 
patient’s identified needs, prior to assigning a licensed practical nurse, 
homemaker, or a hospice aide to a patient requiring continuous home care. This 
assignment must comply with accepted professional standards of practice. 
 
15. Contracted Services – Services provided to a hospice provider or its patients by 
a third party under a legally binding agreement that defines the roles and 
responsibilities of the hospice and service provider. 
 
16. Core Services – Nursing services, physician services, medical social services, 
and counseling services, including bereavement counseling, spiritual counseling, 
and any other counseling services provided to meet the needs of the individual 
and family.  These services must be provided by employees of the hospice, except 
that physician services and counseling services may be provided through contract. 
<<<PAGE 4>>>
4  
 
17. Counselor – Means an individual who has at least a bachelor’s degree in 
psychology, a master’s or bachelor’s degree from a school of social work 
accredited by the Council on Social Work Education, a bachelor’s degree in 
counseling; or the documented equivalent of any of the above in education, 
training in the spiritual care of the dying and end of life issues, and who is 
currently licensed in the state of Mississippi, if applicable. Verification of 
education and training must be maintained in the individual’s personnel file 
 
18. Criminal History Record Check  
 
a. Affidavit -For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, the term “affidavit” means the use of Mississippi State Department of 
Health (MDH) form #210, or a copy thereof, which shall be placed in the 
individual’s personal file. 
 
b. Employee -For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a covered entity.  
The term “employee” also includes any individual who by contract with a 
covered entity provides patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or 
in treatment rooms. 
 
c. The term employee does not include healthcare professional/ technical students, 
as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a licensed entity 
under contracts between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not 
include students at high schools who observe the treatment and care of patients 
in a licensed  entity as part of the requirements of an allied health course  taught 
in the school if: 
 
i. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; and 
 
ii. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school 
stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo 
contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, manslaughter, 
armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses listed in section 45-33-
23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, 
aggravated assault, or felonious abuse and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or 
that any such conviction or plea was reversed on appeal or a pardon was 
granted for the conviction or plea. 
 
iii. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi Medical 
Center for whom criminal history record checks and fingerprinting are 
obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are exempt from application 
of the term employee under Section 43-11-13. 
 
<<<PAGE 5>>>
5  
d. Covered Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered 
entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional staffing agency. 
 
e. Licensed Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, home 
health agency or hospice. 
 
f. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program - For 
purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care professional/vocational 
technical academic program” means an academic program in medicine, nursing , 
dentistry, occupational therapy, physical therapy, social services, speech 
therapy, or other allied-health professional whose purpose is to prepare 
professionals to render patient care services. 
 
g. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student   For purposes of 
criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a healthcare 
professional/vocational technical academic program. 
 
h. Direct Patient Care or Services - For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means direct 
hands-on medical  patient care and services provided by an individual in a 
patient, resident or client’s room, treatment room or recovery room.  Individuals 
providing direct patient care may be directly employed by the facility or 
provides patient care on a contractual basis. 
 
i. Documented disciplinary action - For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary action” 
means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient. 
 
19. Department – Means the Mississippi State Department of Health (MDH). 
 
20. Discharge – The point at which the patient’s active involvement with the hospice 
program is ended and the program no longer has active responsibility for the care 
of the patient. 
 
21. Dietitian – Means a person who is registered by the Commission on Dietetic 
Registration of the American Dietetic Association or who has the documented 
equivalent in education, training and/or experience. 
 
22. Do Not Resuscitate Orders (DNR) – Orders written by the patient’s physician 
which stipulate that in the event the patient has a cardiac or respiratory arrest, 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation will not be initiated or performed. 
 
23. Emotional Support – Support provided to assist the person in coping with stress, 
grief and loss. 
 
<<<PAGE 6>>>
6  
24. Family Unit – Means the terminally ill person and his or her family, which may 
include spouse, children, sibling, parents, and other with significant personal ties 
to the patient. 
 
25. Freestanding Hospice– Freestanding Hospice means a hospice that is not a part 
of any other type of health care provider. 
 
26. Geographic Service Area – Area around the Parent Office, which  is within 50 
miles radius of the Parent Office premises.  Each hospice must designate the 
geographic service area in which the agency will provide services. Should any 
portion of a county fall within a 50 mile radius of the Parent, then the entire 
county may fall within the geographic service area of the Parent. Nothing herein 
is intended to automatically expand the service area of any existing Parent. A 
hospice shall seek approval of the Department for any expansion of their service 
area.  The full range of hospice services, as specified, must be provided to the 
entire designated geographic services area. 
 
27. Governing Body- A hospice program shall have a clearly defined organized 
governing body that has autonomous authority for the conduct of the hospice 
program. (Section: 41-85-19) This governing body is not required to meet more 
often than quarterly.  
 
28. Hospice Aide-An individual who is currently qualified in the State of Mississippi 
to provide personal care services to hospice patients under the direction of a 
registered nurse of the hospice. 
 
29. Hospice Inpatient Facility – Organized facilities where specific levels of care 
ranging from residential to acute, including respite, are provided on a 24-hour 
basis within the confines of a licensed hospital, nursing home, or freestanding 
hospice in order to meet the needs of the patient/family.  A hospice inpatient 
facility shall meet the Condition of Participation for providing inpatient care 
directly as specified in Title 42, Section 418.100 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations. 
 
30. Hospice – Means an autonomous, centrally administered, nonprofit or for profit 
medically directed, nurse-coordinated program providing a continuum of home, 
outpatient and homelike inpatient care for not less than four (4) terminally ill 
patients and their families.  It employs a hospice care team (see definition of 
hospice care team) to assist in providing palliative and supportive care to meet the 
special needs arising out of the physical, emotional, spiritual, social and economic 
stresses which are experienced during the final stages of illness and during dying 
and bereavement.  This care is available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) 
days a week, and is provided on the basis of need regardless of inability to pay. 
(Section 41-85-3) 
 
<<<PAGE 7>>>
7  
31. Hospice Physician – A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who is currently and 
legally authorized to practice medicine in the State of Mississippi and is 
designated by the hospice to provide medical care to hospice patients, in 
coordination with the patient’s primary physician. 
 
32. Hospice Premises – The physical site where the hospice maintains staff to 
perform administrative functions, maintains its personnel records, maintains its 
client service records, and holds itself out to the public as being a location for 
receipt of client referrals.  A hospice must be physically located within the State 
of Mississippi.  A license for a hospice program shall not be issued if the hospice 
is to be located in an area in violation of any local zoning ordinance or regulation\ 
 
33. Informed Consent – A documented process in which information regarding the 
potential and actual benefits and risks of a given procedure or program of care is 
exchanged between provider and patient. 
 
34. Inpatient Services – Care available for General Inpatient Care or Respite Care 
that is provided in an Inpatient Hospice Facility, hospital, or SNF that meets the 
Condition of Participation for providing inpatient care directly as specified in 
Title 42, Section 418.100 of the Code of Federal Regulations. 
 
35. Interdisciplinary Team (IDT) – An interdisciplinary team or group(s) 
designated by the hospice, composed of representatives from all the core services.  
The Interdisciplinary Team must include at least a doctor of medicine or 
osteopathy, a registered nurse, a social worker, and a pastoral or other counselor.  
The interdisciplinary team is responsible for participation in the establishment of 
the plan of care; provision or supervision of hospice care and services; periodic 
review and updating of the plan of care for each individual receiving hospice care, 
and establishment of policies governing the day-to-day provision of hospice care 
and services.  If a hospice has more than one interdisciplinary team; it must 
designate, in advance, the team it chooses to execute the establishment of policies 
governing the day-to-day provision of hospice care and services. 
 
36. Interdisciplinary Team Conferences – Regularly scheduled periodic meetings 
of specific members of the interdisciplinary team (see Rule 1.3.36) to review the 
most current patient/family assessment, evaluate care needs, and update the plan 
of care. 
 
37. Level of Care – Hospice care is divided into four categories of care rendered to 
the hospice patient. 
 
a. Routine home care 
 
b. Continuous home care 
 
c. Inpatient respite care 
<<<PAGE 8>>>
8  
 
d. General inpatient care 
 
38. License (Hospice) – A document permitting an organization to practice hospice 
care for a specific period of time under the rules and regulations set forth by the 
State of Mississippi. 
 
39. Licensing Agency- Means the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
40. Life-Threatening – Causes or has the potential to cause serious bodily harm or 
death of an individual. 
 
41. Medically Directed – Means that the delivery of medical care is directed by a 
licensed physician who is employed by the hospice for the purpose of providing 
ongoing palliative care as a participating caregiver on the hospice care team. 
 
42. Medical Social Services – Include a comprehensive psychosocial assessment; 
ongoing support for the patient and family; and assistance with coping skills, 
anticipatory grief, and grief reactions. 
 
43. Non-Core Services- Services provided directly by hospice employees or under 
arrangement that are not considered Core Services.  These services include, but 
are not limited to: 
 
a. Hospice aide and homemaker 
 
b. Physical therapy services 
 
c. Occupational therapy services 
 
d. Speech-language pathology services 
 
e. General inpatient care 
 
f. Respite care 
 
g. Medical supplies and appliances including drugs and biologicals. 
 
44. Nurse Practitioner/Physician Assistant – Shall mean a nurse who is currently 
licensed as such in the State of Mississippi and is performing duties in accordance 
with the Mississippi Nurse Practice Act or a physician assistant who is currently 
licensed as such in the State of Mississippi and is performing duties in accordance 
with the Mississippi Physician Assistants Act. 
 
45. Occupational Therapist – Means a person licensed to practice Occupational 
Therapy in the State of Mississippi. 
<<<PAGE 9>>>
9  
 
 
46. Outpatient Care- Means any care rendered or coordinated by the hospice care 
team that is not “home care” or “inpatient care”. 
 
47. Palliative Care – Means the reduction or abatement of pain and other troubling 
symptoms by appropriate coordination of all elements of the hospice care team 
needed to achieve needed relief of distress. 
 
48. Parent Office – The primary location or site from which a hospice agency 
provides services within a Geographic Service Area.  The Parent Office is used to 
determine the base of the Geographic Service Area. 
 
49. Patient – Shall mean the terminally ill individual who meets criteria as defined 
per State law. 
 
50. Period of Crisis – A period in which a patient required predominately nursing 
care to achieve palliation or management of acute medical problems. 
 
51. Physical Therapist – Means an individual who is currently licensed to practice 
physical therapy in the State of Mississippi. 
 
52. Plan of Care (POC) – A written document established and maintained for each 
individual admitted to a hospice program. Care provided to an individual must be 
in accordance with the plan.  The plan must include a comprehensive assessment 
of the individual’s needs and identification of the care/services including  the 
management of discomfort and symptom relief. 
 
53. Primary Care person – A person designated by the patient who agrees to give 
continuing support and/or care. 
 
54. Registered Nurse – An individual who is currently  licensed in the State of 
Mississippi or in accordance with criteria established per the Nurse Compact Act 
and is performing nursing duties in accordance with the Mississippi Nurse 
Practice Act. 
 
55. Representative – An individual who has been authorized under State law to 
terminate medical care or to elect or revoke the election of hospice care on behalf 
of a terminally ill individual who is mentally or physically incapacitated. 
 
56. Residential Care- Hospice care provided in a nursing facility or any residence or 
facility other than the patient’s private residence. 
 
57. Respite Care- Short-term care provided in an Inpatient Hospice Facility, hospital, 
or SNF that meets the Condition of Participation for providing inpatient care 
directly as specified in Title 42, Section 418.100 of the Code of Federal 
<<<PAGE 10>>>
10  
Regulations.  Respite care is short-term inpatient care provided to the patient only 
when necessary to relieve the family members or other persons caring for the 
patient.  Respite care may be provided only on an occasional basis and may not be 
reimbursed for more than five consecutive days at a time. 
 
58. Social Worker – An individual who has a degree from a school of  social work 
accredited by the Council on Social Work Education and is licensed by the State 
of Mississippi. 
 
59. Speech Pathologist – Shall mean an individual who meets the educational and 
experience requirements for a Certificate of  Clinical Competence granted by the 
American Speech and Hearing Association and is currently licensed as a Speech 
and Language Pathologist in the State of Mississippi. 
 
60. Spiritual Services – Providing the availability of clergy, as needed, to address the 
patient’s/family’s spiritual needs and concerns. 
 
61. Terminally Ill- A medical prognosis of limited expected survival of 
approximately six months or less, if the disease follows its normal course, of an 
individual who is experiencing an illness for which therapeutic strategies directed 
toward cure and control of the disease alone is no longer appropriate. 
 
62. Volunteer – Means a trained individual who provides support and assistance to 
the patient, family or organization, without remuneration, in accord with the plan 
of care developed by the hospice core team and under the supervision of a 
member of the hospice staff appointed by the governing body or its designee. 
 
63. Director of Volunteers - Means a person who directs the volunteer program in 
accordance with the acceptable standards of  hospice practice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 4  PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDEMENT 
 
Rule 1.4.1 Authority – The Mississippi State Department of Health shall have the power to 
adopt, amend, promulgate and enforce such minimum standards of operation as it 
deems appropriate, within the law. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.4.2 Amendment – The Minimum Standards of Operation for Hospice may be 
amended by the Mississippi State Department of Health as necessary to promote 
the health, safety and welfare of persons receiving services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
<<<PAGE 11>>>
11  
Subchapter 5 CLASSIFICATION OF HOSPICE 
 
Rule 1.5.1 For the purpose of these rules, regulations, and minimum standards, hospice shall 
be classified as: 
 
1. Freestanding Hospice 
2. Hospital Hospice 
3. Nursing Home Hospice 
4. Home Health Agency Hospice 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.5.2 Hospice Core Service -  To be classified as a Hospice these core services shall be 
provided but need not be limited to the following: 
 
1. Physician Service 
 
2. Nursing Service 
 
3. Medical Social Service 
 
4. Pastoral/Counseling Services 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.5.3 Inpatient Hospice -  To be classified as an Inpatient Hospice that  provides 
inpatient care, the core services (physician, nursing, medical, social and 
counseling) shall be provided on the premises.  Inpatient Hospice must have a 
registered nurse on duty seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day to provide 
direct patient care.  Other members and types of personnel sufficient to meet the 
total needs of the patient shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 6 LICENSING 
 
Rule 1.6.1 It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain a hospice without first obtaining a 
license from the department.  The Mississippi State Department of Health is the 
licensing authority for hospice in the State of Mississippi. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 7  TYPES OF LICENSES 
 
<<<PAGE 12>>>
12  
Rule 1.7.1 Regular License – A license shall be issued to each hospice that meets the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations.  The license shall show the 
classification Home Health, Nursing Home, Hospital or Freestanding. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.7.2 Provisional License – Within its discretion, the Mississippi State Department of 
Health may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of non-
compliance with these regulations exists in one or more particulars.  A provisional 
license shall be issued only if the Department of Health is satisfied that 
preparations are being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and 
safety of patients will not be endangered.  One condition on which a provisional 
license may be issued is as follows:  A new hospice agency may be issued a 
provisional license prior to opening and subsequent to meeting the required 
minimum staffing personnel.  The license issued under this condition shall be 
valid until the issuance of a regular license or June 30 following date of issuance 
whichever may be sooner.  A provisional license may be reissued only if it is 
satisfactorily proven to the Department of Health that efforts are being made to 
fully comply with these regulations by a specified time. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.7.3 A hospice program against which a revocation or suspension proceeding is 
pending at the time of licensure renewal may be issued a conditional license 
effective until final disposition by the department of such proceedings.  If judicial 
relief is sought from the final disposition, the court having jurisdiction may issue 
a conditional permit for the duration of the judicial proceeding. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 8  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 
 
Rule 1.8.1 A Hospice shall not be operated in Mississippi without a valid license from 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.2 Any person or organization desiring to operate a hospice shall file with the 
Department of Health: 
 
1. Application on a form prescribed and furnished by the Department of Health; and 
2. Fees as applicable per State law 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 13>>>
13  
Rule 1.8.3 The application shall include complete information concerning the  address of the 
applicant; the ownership of the hospice; if organized as a corporation, the names 
and addresses of each officer and director of the corporation; if organized as a 
partnership, the names and addresses of each partner; membership of the 
governing body; the identities of the medical director and administrator; and any 
other relevant information which the Mississippi State Department of Health may 
require. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.4 Ownership of the hospice shall be fully disclosed in the application.  This 
disclosure shall include names and addresses of all corporate officers and any 
person(s) having a five percent (5%) financial interest. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.5 A license shall be issued to the person(s) named only for the premises listed on 
the application for licensure.  Separate applications and licenses are required for 
hospices maintained separately, even if they are owned or operated by the same 
person(s), business or  corporation, and may be doing business under the same 
trade name.  No hospices shall establish a branch/satellite facility outside a 50 
mile radius from the Parent facility.  However, existing satellite branch offices 
operating outside the described 50 mile radius referenced in Rule 1.3.27 prior to 
the effective date of these regulations shall be permitted to remain satellite branch 
offices under their existing Parent facility.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.6 Licenses are not transferable or assignable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.7  Each planned change of ownership or lease shall be reported to the Department at 
least thirty (30) days prior to such change along with an application from the 
proposed new owners/lessees for a new license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.8 The application is considered a continuing application.  A written amendment to 
the current application shall be filed when there is a change in any of the 
information reported in the application. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.9 Fees:  Prior to review for an initial license and prior to license renewal, the facility 
shall submit fees as established by the Mississippi State Board of Health, made 
<<<PAGE 14>>>
14  
payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, 
money order, or electronic means.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.10 Operational Requirements/Conditions of Operation – In order for a hospice 
program to be considered operational, the program must: 
 
1. Have admitted at least ten patients since the last annual survey; 
 
2. Be able to accept referrals at any time; 
 
3. Have adequate staff to meet the needs of their current patients; 
 
4. Have required designated staff on the premises at all times during business hours; 
 
5. Be immediately available by telecommunications 24 hours per day.  A registered 
nurse must answer calls from patients and other medical personnel after hours; 
 
6. Be open for business of providing hospice services to those who need assistance. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.8.11 License Renewal Process 
 
1. A license issued for the operation of a hospice program, unless sooner suspended 
or revoked, shall expire automatically on June 30 of each calendar year. 
 
2. Renewal packet includes forms required for renewal of license. 
 
3. An agency seeking a renewal of its hospice license shall: 
 
a. Request a renewal packet from the bureau if one is not received at least 45 days 
prior to license expiration; 
 
b. Complete all forms and return to bureau at least 30 days prior to license 
expiration; 
 
c. Submit the current annual licensure fees with packet. An application is not 
considered to have been submitted unless the licensure fees are received. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 9   NOTIFICATION OF CHANGES 
 
Rule 1.9.1 Mississippi State Department of Health shall be notified, in writing, of any of the 
following within five working days following the occurrence: 
<<<PAGE 15>>>
15  
 
1. Address/location (An Inpatient Hospice facility must notify and receive approval 
by Mississippi State Department of Health prior to a change of address/location); 
 
2. Agency name; 
3. Phone number; 
4. Hours of operation/24 hour contact procedure; 
5. Change in address or phone number of any branch office; 
6. Administrator;  
7. Director of nursing; and 
8. Cessation of business. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.2 Name of Institution – Every hospice shall be designated by a permanent and 
distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not be 
changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and receiving 
written approval of the change from the licensing agency.  Such notice shall 
specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed.  Only the 
official name by which the institution is licensed shall be used in telephone 
listing, on stationery, in advertising, etc.  Two or more facilities shall not be 
licensed under similar names in the same vicinity. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.3 Number of Beds – Each application for license shall specify the maximum 
number of inpatient beds in the hospice as determined by these regulations.  The 
maximum number of inpatient beds for which the facility is licensed shall not be 
exceeded. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.4 A license for a hospice program shall not be issued if the hospice is to be located 
in an area in violation of any local zoning ordinances or regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.5 Following inspection and evidence of compliance with these regulations, the 
Mississippi State Department of Health may issue a license.  Only licensed 
hospices shall be authorized to use the name “hospice. 
 
<<<PAGE 16>>>
16  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.6 A license shall be displayed in a prominent place in the hospice’s administrative 
offices. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.7 Inspections 
 
1. Observation and examination of the hospice operation shall be available at all 
reasonable hours to properly identified representatives of the Department. 
 
2. The Department shall conduct inspections of all Parent and Branch units annually. 
 
3. Hospice inspections shall include personal contacts with recipients of the hospice 
service. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.9.8 Change of Ownership:  Should a hospice program/facility wish to undergo a 
change of ownership, the facility must: 
 
1. Submit a written request to Mississippi State Department of Health to obtain a 
Change of Ownership (CHOW) Package. 
 
2. Submit the following with the request for CHOW within five (5) working days 
after the act of sale: 
 
a. A new license application and the current licensing fee.  The purchaser of the 
agency must meet all criteria required for initial licensure for hospice; 
 
b. Any changes in the name and or address of the agency; 
 
c. Any changes in administrative personnel; 
 
d. Copy of the Bill of Sale and/or legal document reflecting change; 
 
e. Copy of Articles of Incorporation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 10 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
 
Rule 1.10.1 Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearing and Review – The licensing agency 
is authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license. Any of the following actions 
shall be grounds for action by the department against a hospice program: 
 
<<<PAGE 17>>>
17  
1. A violation of the provisions of the Mississippi Hospice Law of 1995 or any 
standard or rule of these regulations, including but not limited to, in any case the 
Department finds that there has been substantial failure to comply with the 
requirements established under the law and these regulations.  These are inclusive 
of the following: 
 
a. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for license. 
 
b. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of the 
Mississippi Law of 1995, as amended, and /or of the rules, regulations, and 
minimum standards established by the Department of Health. 
 
c. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or the management staff of the 
hospice. 
 
2. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the hospice to the 
extent which threatens the well being or safety of the patient or resident. 
 
3. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
 
4. Publicly misrepresenting the hospice and/or its services. 
 
5. Permitting, aiding, and abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
 
6. Misappropriation of the money or property of a patient or resident. 
 
7. An intentional or negligent act materially affecting the health and safety of a 
patient. These acts include but are not necessarily limited to:  
 
a. Cruelty to patient or resident or indifference to their needs which are essential to 
their general well-being and health. 
 
b. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of the patient or resident, when 
residing in an inpatient facility. 
 
c. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of patient or resident. 
 
d. Failure to call a physician when required by patient’s or resident’s condition. 
 
e. Failure to notify next of kin or designated individual hen patient’s or resident’s 
conditions become critical. 
 
f. Failure to provide appropriate level of care. 
 
<<<PAGE 18>>>
18  
8. If, three (3) months after the date of obtaining a license, or at  any time thereafter, 
a hospice does not have in operation the home-care component of hospice care, 
the department shall immediately revoke the license of such hospice. 
 
9. If, twelve (12) months after the date of obtaining a license, or at any time 
thereafter, a hospice does not have in operation the outpatient and homelike 
inpatient components of hospice care, the department shall immediately revoke 
the license of such hospice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 11 PROVISION OF HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING DENIAL 
OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
 
Rule 1.11.1 Administrative Decision – The Mississippi State Department of Health will 
provide an opportunity for a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is 
dissatisfied with administrative decisions made in the suspension, denial or 
revocation of license. 
 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the suspension,  denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of notification the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) 
days from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally upon 
the applicant or licensee. 
 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision to the State court 
having jurisdiction and such court issues a conditional permit for the duration of 
the judicial proceedings.   An additional period of time may be granted at the 
discretion of the licensing agency including a conditional license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.11.2 Penalties – Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating a 
hospice without a license shall be declared in violations of these regulations and 
State law. Penalties shall be assessed in accordance with §41-85-25 of the 
Mississippi Code of 1972. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 19>>>
19  
Subchapter 12 TERMINATION OF OPERATION 
 
Rule 1.12.1 General – In the event that a Hospice ceases operation, voluntarily or otherwise, 
the agency shall: 
 
1. Inform the attending physician, patient, and persons responsible for the patient’s 
care in ample time to provide for alternate methods of care; 
 
2. Provide the receiving facility or agency with a complete copy of the clinical 
record; 
 
3. Inform the community through public announcement of the termination; 
 
4. Ensure the safekeeping, confidentiality, and storage of all clinical records for a 
period of five (5) years, following discharge, and notify Mississippi State 
Department of Health, in writing, the location of all records; 
 
5. Return the license to the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 13 ADMINISTRATION 
 
Rule 1.13.1 Governing Body – A hospice shall have a governing body (See Definition ) that 
assumes full legal responsibility for compliance with these regulations and for 
setting policy, appointing persons to carry out such policies, and monitoring the 
hospice’s total operation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.13.2 Medical Director  
 
1. Each hospice shall have a Medical Director, who, on the basis of training, 
experience and interest, shall be knowledgeable about the psychosocial and 
medical aspects of hospice care. 
 
2. The Medical Director shall be appointed by the governing body or its designee. 
 
3. The Medical Director is expected to play an integral role in providing medical 
supervision to the hospice interdisciplinary group and in providing overall 
coordination of the patient’s plan of care. The Medical Director’s expertise in 
managing pain and symptoms associated with the patient’s terminal disease is 
necessary, regardless of the setting in which the patient is receiving services to 
assure that the hospice patient has access quality hospice care.  
 
4. The duties of the Medical Director shall include, but not be limited to: 
 
<<<PAGE 20>>>
20  
a. Determination of patient medical eligibility for hospice services in accordance 
with hospice  program policy; 
 
b. Collaboration with the individual’s attending physician to assure all aspects of 
medical care are taken into consideration in devising a palliative plan of care;  
 
c. Review, revise and document the plan at intervals  specified in the plan, but no 
less than every 14 calendar days; 
 
d. Acting as a medical resource to the hospice care team and as a medical liaison 
with physicians in the community; and 
 
e. Coordination of efforts with each attending physician to provide care in the 
event that the attending physician is unable to retain responsibility for patient 
care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.13.3 Administrator – A person shall be designated by the governing body or its 
designee to be responsible for the management of the hospice program in matters 
of overall operation.  This person may be a member of the hospice care team. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.13.4 Advertising – If a hospice advertises its services, such advertisement shall be 
factual and not contain any element which might be considered coercive or 
misleading.  Any written advertising describing services offered by the hospice 
shall contain notification that services are available regardless of ability to pay. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.13.5 Annual Budget 
 
1. The annual budget shall include income plus expenses related to overall cost of 
the program. 
 
2. The overall plan and budget shall be reviewed and updated at least annually by 
the governing body. 
 
3. The annual budget should reflect a comparative analysis of the cost savings of the 
volunteers. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 14 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
 
<<<PAGE 21>>>
21  
Rule 1.14.1 The hospice shall maintain operational policies and procedures, which shall be 
kept current. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 Rule 1.14.2 Such policies and procedures shall accurately reflect a description of the hospice’s 
goals, methods by which these goals are sought, and mechanisms by which the 
basic hospice care services are delivered. The facility must follow all written 
policies developed by the licensed facility. 
 SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 15 PERSONNEL POLICIES 
 
Rule 1.15.1 Personnel Policies – Each licensed hospice agency shall adopt and enforce 
personnel policies applicable and available to all full and part time employees.  
These policies shall include but not be limited to the following: 
1. Fringe benefits, hours of work and leave time; 
2. Requirements for initial and periodic health examinations; 
3. Orientation to the hospice and appropriate continuing education; 
4. Job descriptions for all positions utilized by the agency; 
5. Annual performance evaluations for all employees; 
6. Compliance with all applicable requirements of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; 
7. Provision for confidentiality of personnel records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.15.2 Personnel Records – Each licensed hospice shall maintain  complete personnel 
records for all employees on file at each licensed site.  Personnel records for all 
employees shall include and application for employment including name and 
address of the employee, social security number, date of birth, name and address 
of next of kin, evidence of qualifications, (including reference checks), current 
licensure and/or registration (if applicable), performance evaluation, evidence of 
health screening, evidence of orientation, and a contract (if applicable), date of 
employment and separation from the hospice and the reason for separation.  A 
Hospice that provides other services under arrangement through a  contractual 
purchase of services shall ensure that these services are provided by qualified 
personnel; currently licensed and/or registered if applicable, and are under the 
supervision of the agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 22>>>
22  
  Rule 1.15.3 Criminal History Record Checks 
 
9. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity 
shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the professional 
licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any disciplinary 
action has been taken against the employee by the agency, and a criminal 
history record check on: 
 
A.  Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care 
or services; and  
 
B.  Any individual seeking new employment with a covered entity 
whose initial criminal history record check is over two years. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.15.3 Employee Health Screening – Every employee of a hospice who comes in 
contact with patients shall receive a health screening by a licensed physician, 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant or employee health nurse who conduct 
exams prior to employment.  Facilities shall comply with recommendations from 
the Centers for Disease Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health 
regarding baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing 
and education. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.15.4 Staffing Schedule – Each hospice and alternate site shall maintain on site current 
staffing patterns for all health care personnel including full-time, part-time, 
contract staff and staff under arrangement.  The staffing pattern shall be 
developed at least one week in advance, updated daily as needed, and kept on file 
for a period of one year.  The staffing pattern shall indicate the following for each 
working day: 
 
1. Name and position of each staff member. 
2. Patients to be visited. 
3. Scheduled on call after office hours. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 16 CONTRACT SERVICES 
 
Rule 1.16.1 Contract Services – Contract services may be provided when necessary to 
supplement hospice employees in order to meet the needs of patients during peak 
patient loads or under extraordinary circumstances.  If contracting is used, the 
hospice must maintain professional, financial and administrative responsibility for 
<<<PAGE 23>>>
23  
the services.  The hospice must assure that the personnel contracted are legally 
and professionally qualified to perform the services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.16.2 The hospice must assure that contracted staff are providing care that is consistent 
with the Hospice philosophy and the patient’s plan of care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 17  ORGANIZATION AND STAFFING PERSONNEL    
QUALIFICATIONS/RESPONSIBILITIES 
 
Rule 1.17.1 Administrator – A person who is designated, in writing, by the Governing Body 
as administratively responsible for all aspects of hospice operations.  When the 
administrator serves more than one licensed agency, he/she shall designate, in 
writing, an alternate to serve as administrator for each site where he/she is not 
physically housed continuously.  The alternate shall be a full-time, on-site 
employee of the hospice and shall meet the same qualifications as the 
administrator.  The administrator and the Director of Nurses/Alternates may be 
the same individual if that individual is dually qualified.   
 
1. Qualifications – Licensed physician, a licensed registered nurse, a social worker 
with a Bachelor’s degree, or a college graduate with a bachelor’s degree and two 
(2) years of health care management experience or an individual with one (1) year 
of healthcare management experience and three (3) years of healthcare service 
delivery experience that would be relevant to managing the day-to-day operations 
of a hospice.  EXEMPTION: Any person who is employed by a licensed 
Mississippi hospice as the administrator, as of the effective date of these 
regulations, shall be exempt from these requirements as long as he/she remains 
employed by that hospice as the administrator. If the hospice is sold to, acquired 
by, or merged into another legal entity, such transaction shall have no effect on 
the exemption provided in the preceding sentence.  
 
2. Responsibilities – The administrator shall be responsible for compliance with all 
regulations, laws, policies and  procedures applicable to hospice specifically 
and to Medicare/Medicaid issues when applicable: 
 
a. Ensure the hospice employs qualified individuals; 
 
b. Be on-site during business hours or immediately available by ecommunications 
when working within the geographic service area; 
 
3. Be responsible for and direct the day-to-day operations of the hospice; 
4. Act as liaison among staff, patients, and governing board; 
<<<PAGE 24>>>
24  
5. Designate, in writing, an individual who meets the administrator qualifications to 
assume the authority and the control of the hospice if the administrator is 
unavailable; and 
 
6. Designate in advance the IDT he/she chooses to establish policies governing the 
day-to-day provisions of hospice care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.17.2 Counselor – Bereavement  
 
1. Qualifications – Documented evidence of appropriate training and experience in 
the care of the bereaved received under the supervision of a qualified 
professional. 
 
2. Responsibilities – Under the supervision of a qualified professional, and as part of 
an organized program for the provision of bereavement services, the counselor 
shall implement bereavement counseling in a manner consistent with standards of 
practice.  Services include, but are not limited to the following:   
 
3. Assess grief counseling needs; 
 
4. Provide bereavement information and referral services to the bereaved, as needed, 
in accordance with the POC; 
 
5. Provide bereavement support to hospice staff as needed; 
 
6. Attend hospice IDT meetings as needed; and 
 
7. Document bereavement services provided and  progress of bereaved on a clinical 
progress note to be incorporated in the clinical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.17.3 Counselor – Dietary 
 
1. Qualifications – A registered dietician licensed in the State of Mississippi who 
meets the qualification standards of the Commission on Dietetic Registration of 
the American Dietetic Association. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The dietitian shall implement dietary services based on initial 
and ongoing assessment of dietary needs in a manner consistent with standards of 
practice  including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
a. Evaluate outcomes of interventions and document  findings on a clinical 
progress note which is to be incorporated into the clinical record within one 
week of the visit; 
<<<PAGE 25>>>
25  
 
b. Collaborate with the patient/family, physician, registered nurse, and/or the IDT 
in providing  dietary counseling to the patient/family; 
 
c. Instruct patient/family and/or hospice staff as needed; 
 
d. Evaluate patient socioeconomic factors to develop  recommendations concerning 
food purchasing, preparation and storage; 
 
e. Evaluate food preparation methods to ensure nutritive value is conserved, flavor, 
texture and temperature principles are adhered to in meeting the individual 
patient’s needs; and 
 
f. Participate in IDT conference as needed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.17.4 Counselor – Spiritual 
 
1. Qualifications – Documented evidence of appropriate training and skills to 
provide spiritual counseling, such as Bachelor of Divinity, Master of Divinity or 
equivalent theological degree or training. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The counselor shall provide spiritual counseling based on the 
initial and ongoing assessment of spiritual needs of the patient/family, in a 
manner consistent with standards of practice including, but not limited to, the 
following: 
 
a. Serve as a liaison and support to community chaplains and/or spiritual 
counselors; 
 
b. Provide consultation, support, and education to the IDT members on spiritual 
care; 
 
c. Supervise spiritual care volunteers assigned to family/care givers; and  
 
d. Attend IDT meetings. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.17.5 Director of Nurses (DON) 
 
1. A person designated, in writing, by the Governing Body to supervise all aspects 
of patient care, all activities of professional staff and allied health personnel, and 
responsible for compliance with regulatory requirements.  The DON or alternate, 
shall be on site or immediately available to be on site, at all times during 
<<<PAGE 26>>>
26  
operating hours.  If the DON is unavailable he/she shall designate a Registered 
Nurse to be responsible during his/her absence. 
 
2. NOTE:  The Director of Nurses is prohibited from simultaneous concurrent 
employment with any entity or any other licensed health care entity, unless such 
licensed healthcare agency is occupying the same physical office space as the 
hospice.  
 
3. Qualifications – A registered nurse who is currently licensed to practice in the 
State of Mississippi. 
 
4. With at least three years experience as a registered nurse.  One of these years shall 
consist of full-time experience in: 
 
a. Providing direct patient care in a hospice, home health, or oncology setting; or 
 
b. The management of patient care staff in an  acute care setting, hospice or home 
health; and 
 
c. Be a full time employee of only the hospice agency.   
 
5. Responsibilities – The DON shall supervise all patient care activities to assure 
compliance with current standards of accepted nursing and medical practice 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
a. The POC; 
 
b. Implement personnel and employment policies to assure that only qualified 
personnel are hired. verify licensure and/or certification (as required by law) 
prior to employment and annually thereafter; 
 
c. maintain records to support competency of all allied health personnel; 
 
d. Implement hospice policies and procedures that establish and support quality 
patient care, cost control, and mechanisms for disciplinary action for infractions; 
 
e. Ensure clinical staff compliance with the employee health program; and 
 
f. Ensure compliance with local, state, and federal laws to promote the health and 
safety of employees, patients and the community, using the following non-
exclusive methods: 
 
i. Resolve problems; 
 
ii.  Perform complaint investigations; 
iii. Refer impaired personnel to proper authorities; 
<<<PAGE 27>>>
27  
 
iv. Ensure appropriate orientation and in-service training to employees; 
 
v. Ensure the development and implementation of an orientation program for 
new direct health care personnel; 
 
vi. Ensure the completion of timely annual  performance evaluations of health 
care personnel or designate other supervisory personnel to perform such 
evaluations; 
 
vii. Ensure participation in regularly scheduled appropriate continuing 
education for all health professionals, home health aides and homemakers; 
 
viii. Ensure that the care provided by the health care personnel promotes 
effective hospice  services and the safety of the patient; and 
 
ix. Ensure that the hospice policies are enforced. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 18 GOVERNING BODY 
 
Rule 1.18.1 The hospice shall have a governing body that assumes full legal responsibility for 
determining, implementing and monitoring policies governing the hospice’s total 
operation.  No contracts/arrangements or other agreements may limit or diminish 
the responsibility of the governing body.  The governing body shall:  
 
1. Designate an individual who is responsible for the day to day management of the 
hospice program; 
 
2. Ensure that all services provided are consistent with accepted standards of 
practice; 
 
3. Develop and approve policies and procedures which define and describe the scope 
of services offered; 
 
4. Review policies and procedures at least annually revise them as necessary; and 
 
5. Maintain an organizational chart that delineates lines of authority and 
responsibility for all hospice personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.2 Hospice Aide -  A qualified person who provides direct patient care and/or 
housekeeping duties in the home or homelike setting under the direct supervision 
of a registered nurse.  The facility shall ensure that each hospice aide is 
appropriately trained and competent to meet the needs of the patient per the plan 
<<<PAGE 28>>>
28  
of care.  Documentation must be maintained on-site of all training and 
competency in accordance with patient plan of care. 
 
1. Responsibilities – The hospice aide shall provide services established and 
delegated in POC, record and notify the primary registered nurse of deviations 
according to standard of practice including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
2. Provide assistance with mobility, transferring, walking, grooming, bathing, 
dressing or undressing, eating, toileting, and/or housekeeping needs. 
 
3. Complete a clinical note for each visit, which must be incorporated into the record 
at least on a weekly basis. 
 
4. Restrictions – The hospice aide shall not: 
 
a. Perform any intravenous procedures, procedures involving the use of Levine 
tubes or Foley catheters, or any other sterile or invasive procedures. 
 
b. Administer medications. 
 
5. Initial Orientation – The content of the basic orientation provided to the hospice 
aides shall include the following: 
 
a. Policies and objectives of the agency; 
 
b. Duties and responsibilities of a hospice aide; 
 
c. The role of the hospice aide as a member of the healthcare team; 
 
6. Emotional problems associated with terminal illness; 
 
7. The aging process; 
 
8. Information on the process of aging and behavior of the aged; 
 
9. Information on the emotional problems accompanying terminal illness; 
 
10. Information on terminal care, stages of death and dying, and grief; 
 
11. Principles and practices of maintaining a clean, healthy and safe environment; 
 
12. Ethics; and 
 
13. Confidentiality. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 29>>>
29  
Rule 1.18.3 NOTE:  The orientation and training curricula for hospice aides shall be detailed 
in a policies and procedures manual maintained by the hospice agency and 
provision of orientation and training shall be documented in the employee 
personnel record. Training shall include the following areas of instruction: 
 
1. Assisting patients to achieve optimal activities of daily living; 
 
2. Principles of nutrition and meal preparation; 
 
3. Record keeping; 
 
4. Procedures for maintaining a clean, healthful environment; and 
 
5. Changes in the patients’ condition to be reported to the supervisor. 
 
6. In-service Training – The hospice aide must have a minimum of 12 hours of 
appropriate in-service training annually.  In-service training may be prorated for 
employees working a portion of the year.  However, part-time employee who 
worked throughout the year must attend all twelve (12) hours of in-service 
training. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.4 Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN)  - The LPN must work under the direct 
supervision of a registered nurse and perform skilled services as delegated by the 
registered nurse. 
 
1. Qualifications – A LPN must be currently licensed by the Mississippi State Board 
of Practical Nurse Examiners with no restrictions: 
 
a. With at least one year full time experience as an LPN.  Two years of full time 
experience is preferred; 
b. Be an employee of the hospice agency. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The LPN shall perform skilled nursing services under the 
supervision of a registered nurse, in a manner consistent with standards of 
practice, including but not limited to, such duties as follows: 
 
a. Observe, record, and report to the registered nurse  or director of nurses on the 
general physical and mental conditions of the patient; 
 
b. Administer prescribed medications and treatments  as permitted by State 
regulations; 
 
 
c. Assist the physician and/or registered nurse in performing procedures as per the 
patient’s plan of care. 
<<<PAGE 30>>>
30  
 
d. Prepare equipment for treatments, including sterilization, and adherence to 
aseptic techniques; 
 
e. Assist the patient with activities of daily living; 
 
f. Prepare clinical and/or progress notes and incorporate them into the clinical 
record at least weekly; 
 
g. Perform wound care and treatments as specified per nursing practice and if 
training competency is documented; 
 
h. Accepts verbal/written orders from the physician or nurse practitioner or 
physician’s assistant in accordance with facility policies; and 
 
i. Attend hospice IDT meetings. 
 
3. Restrictions – An LPN shall not: 
 
a. Access any intravenous appliance for any reason; 
 
b. Perform supervisory aide visit; 
 
c. Develop and/or alter the POC; 
 
d. Make an assessment visit; 
 
e. Evaluate recertification criteria; 
 
f. Make aide assignments; or 
 
g. Function as a supervisor of the nursing practice of  any registered nurse. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.5 Medical Director/Physician Designee - A physician, currently and legally 
authorized to practice medicine the State, and knowledgeable about the medical 
and psychosocial aspects of hospice care.  The Medical Director reviews, 
coordinates, and is responsible for the management of clinical and medical care 
for all patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.6 NOTE:  The Medical Director or Physician Designee may be an employee or a 
volunteer of the hospice agency.  The hospice agency may also contract for the 
services of the Medical Director or Physician Designee. 
 
<<<PAGE 31>>>
31  
1. Qualifications – A Doctor of Medicine or Osteopathy licensed to practice in the 
State of Mississippi. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The Medical Director or Physician designee assumes overall 
responsibility for the medical component of the hospice’s patient care program 
and shall include, but not be limited to: 
 
a. Serve as a consultant with the attending physician  regarding pain and symptom 
control as needed; 
 
b. Serve as the attending physician if designated by the patient/family unit; 
 
c. Review patient eligibility for hospice services; 
 
d. Participate in the review and update of the POC for each patient at a minimum 
of every 14 calendar days, unless the plan of care has been reviewed/updated by 
the attending physician who is not also the Medical Director or Physician 
Designee.  These reviews must be documented. 
 
e. Document the patient’s progress toward the outcomes specified in the plan of 
care.  
 
f. Serve as a medical resource for the hospice interdisciplinary group and as a 
liaison to physicians in the community; 
 
g. Develop and coordinate procedures for the  provision of emergency care; 
 
h. Provide a system to assure continuing education for hospice medical staff as 
needed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.7  Occupational Therapist 
 
1. Qualifications – An occupational therapist must be licensed by the State of 
Mississippi. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The occupational therapist shall assist the physician in 
evaluating the patient’s level of functioning by applying diagnostic and prognostic 
procedures including, but not limited to, the following: 
 
a. Provide occupational therapy in accordance with a physician’s orders and the 
POC; 
 
b. Guide the patient in his/her use of therapeutic, creative and self-care activities 
for the purpose of improving function, in a manner consistent with accepted 
standards of practice; 
<<<PAGE 32>>>
32  
 
c. Observe, record, and report to the physician and/or interdisciplinary group the 
patient’s reaction to  treatment and any changes in the patient’s condition; 
 
d. Instruct and inform other health team personnel, assist in the formation of the 
POC; including, when appropriate hospice aides and family members in certain 
phases of occupational therapy in which they may work with the patient; 
 
e. Document each visit made to the patient and incorporate notes into the clinical 
record within one week of the visit; 
 
f. Participate in IDT conference as needed with hospice staff; and 
 
g. Prepare written discharge summary when applicable, with a copy retained in 
patient’s clinical record. 
 
3. Supervision of an Occupational Therapy Assistant 
 
a. The occupational therapist shall conduct the initial assessment and establish the 
goals and treatment plan before the licensed and certified occupational therapy 
assistant may treat the patients on site without the physical presence of the 
occupational  therapist. 
 
b. The occupational therapist and the occupational therapy assistant must schedule 
joint visits at least once every two weeks or every four to six treatment sessions. 
 
c. The occupational therapist must review and countersign all progress notes 
written by the licensed and certified occupational therapy  assistant. 
 
d. The supervising occupational therapist is responsible for assessing the 
competency and experience of the occupational therapy assistant; 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.8 Occupational Therapy Assistant (OTA) Qualifications – The occupational 
therapist assistant must be licensed in the State of Mississippi to assist in the 
practice of occupational therapy under the supervision of a licensed Registered 
Occupational Therapist and have at  least two years experience as a licensed 
OTA. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.9  Physical Therapist (PT) - The physical therapist when provided must be 
available to perform in a manner consistent with accepted standards of practice. 
 
1. Qualifications – The physical therapist must be currently licensed in the State of 
Mississippi. 
<<<PAGE 33>>>
33  
 
2. Responsibilities – The physical therapist shall assist the physician in evaluating 
the patient’s functional status and physical therapy needs in a manner consistent 
with standards of practice to include, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
a. Provide services within the scope of practice as defined by state law governing 
the practice of physical therapy, in accordance with the POC, and in 
coordination with the other members of the IDT: 
 
b. Observe, and report to the physician and the IDT, the patient’s reaction to 
treatment and any changes in the patient’s condition; 
 
c. Instruct and inform participating member of the IDT, the patient, family/care 
givers, regarding the POC, functional limitations and progress toward goals; 
 
d. Prepare clinical and progress notes for each visit and incorporate them into the 
clinical record within one week of the visit; 
 
e. Participate in IDT conference as needed with hospice staff 
 
f. The physical therapist shall be readily accessible by telecommunications. 
 
g. The physical therapist shall evaluate and establish a written treatment plan on 
the patient prior to implementation of any treatment program. 
 
h. The physical therapist shall assess the final treatment rendered to the patient at 
discharge and write a discharge summary with a copy retained in  the clinical 
record. 
 
3. Supervision of Physical Therapy Assistant (PTA) - The physical therapist shall 
make the initial visit with the PTA and conduct supervisory visits no later than 
every sixth treatment day. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.10 Physical Therapy Assistant (PTA) 
 
1. Qualifications – A physical therapy assistant must be licensed by the Physical 
Therapy Board of Mississippi and supervised by a Physical Therapist. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The physical therapy assistant shall: 
 
a. Provide therapy in accordance with the POC; 
 
b. Document each visit made to the patient and incorporate notes into the clinical 
record at least weekly; and 
 
<<<PAGE 34>>>
34  
c. Participates in IDT conference as needed with hospice staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.11 Registered Nurse (RN) - The hospice must designate a registered nurse to 
coordinate the  implementation of the POC for each patient. 
 
1. Qualifications – A licensed registered nurse must be currently licensed to practice 
in the State of Mississippi with no restrictions: 
 
a. Have at least one year full-time experience as a registered nurse or have been a 
licensed LPN employed for three years full-time working in a healthcare setting; 
and 
 
b. Be an employee of the hospice. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The registered nurse shall identify the patient/family’s physical, 
psychosocial, and environmental needs and reassess as needed but no less 
frequently than every 14-15 days: 
 
a. Provide nursing services in accordance with the POC; 
 
b. Document problems, appropriate goals, interventions, and patient/family 
response to hospice care; 
 
c. Collaborate with the patient/family, attending physician and other members of 
the IDT in providing patient and family care; 
 
d. Instruct patient/family in self-care techniques when appropriate; 
 
e. Supervise ancillary personnel and delegate  responsibilities when required; 
 
f. Complete and submit accurate and relevant clinical notes regarding the patient’s 
condition into the clinical record within one week of the visit; 
 
g. Provide direct supervision of the Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) in the home of 
each patient seen by  the LPN at least once a month; 
 
h. Make supervisory visits to the patient’s residence at least every other week with 
the aide alternately present and absent, to provide direct supervision, to assess 
relationships and determine whether goals  are being met. For the initial visit, 
the RN must  accompany/assist the nurse aide;   
i. If a hospice aide is assigned to a patient by the RN, in accordance with the POC, 
specific written instructions for patient care are to be prepared by the RN.  All 
personal care services are to be outlined for the patient, in writing, by the RN; 
 
<<<PAGE 35>>>
35  
j. Document supervision, to include the hospice aide relationships, services 
provided and instructions and comments given as well as other requirements of 
the clinical note;  
 
k. Document annual performance reviews for the hospice aide.  This performance 
review must be maintained in the individual’s personnel record; and 
 
l. Attend hospice IDT meetings. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.12 Social Worker 
 
1. Qualifications – A minimum of a bachelor’s degree from a school of social work 
accredited by the Council of Social Work Education.  This individual must be 
licensed in the State of Mississippi. 
  
a. A minimum of one year documented clinical experience appropriate to the 
counseling and casework needs of the terminally ill. 
 
b. Must be an employee of the hospice. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The social worker shall assist the physician and other IDT 
members in understanding significant social and emotional factors related to the 
patient’s health status and shall include, but not be limited to: 
 
a. Assessment of the social and emotional factors having an impact on the patient’s 
health status; 
 
b. Assist in the formulation of the POC; 
 
c. Provide services within the scope of practice as defined by state law and in 
accordance with the  POC; 
 
d. Coordination with other IDT members and  participate in IDT conferences; 
 
e. Prepare clinical and/or progress notes and incorporate them into the clinical 
record within one week of the visit; 
 
f. Participate in discharge planning, and in-service programs related to the needs of 
the patient; 
 
g. Acts as a consultant to other member of the IDT;  
 
h. When medical social services are discontinued, submit a written summary of 
services provided, including an assessment of the patient’s current status, to be 
retained in the clinical record; and 
<<<PAGE 36>>>
36  
 
i. Attend hospice IDT meetings. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.13 Speech Pathology Services 
 
1. Qualifications – A speech pathologist must: 
 
a. Be licensed by the State of Mississippi; or  
 
b. Have completed the academic requirements and is  in the process of 
accumulating the necessary  supervised (as directed by the State Certifying 
body) work experience required for certification.  Evidence of this supervision 
will be retained in the non-certified speech pathologist’s personnel folder. 
 
2. Responsibilities – The speech pathologist shall assist the physician in evaluation 
of the patient to determine the type of speech or language disorder and the 
appropriate corrective therapy in a manner consistent with standards of practice to 
include, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
a. Provide rehabilitative services for speech and language disorders; 
 
b. Observe, record and report to the physician and the IDT the patient’s reaction to 
treatment and any changes in the patient’s condition; 
 
c. Instruct other health personnel and family members in methods of assisting the 
patient to improve and correct speech disabilities; 
 
d. Communicate with the registered nurse, director of nurses, and/or the IDT the 
need for continuation of speech pathology services for the patient; 
 
e. Participate in hospice IDT meetings as needed; 
 
f. Document each visit made to the patient and incorporate notes into the clinical 
record within one week of the visit; and 
 
g. Prepare written discharge summary as indicated, with a copy retained in 
patient’s clinical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.18.14 Volunteers - Volunteers that provide patient care and support services according 
to their experience and training must be in compliance with agency policies, and 
under the supervision of a designated hospice employee. 
 
<<<PAGE 37>>>
37  
1. Qualifications – Volunteers who are qualified to provide professional services 
must meet all standards associated with their specialty area. 
 
2. Responsibilities - The volunteer shall: 
 
a. Provide assistance to the hospice program, and/or patient/family in accordance 
with designated assignments; 
 
b. Provide input into the plan of care and interdisciplinary group meetings, as 
appropriate; 
 
c. Document services provided as trained and instructed by the hospice agency; 
 
d. Maintain strict patient/family confidentiality; and 
 
e. Communicate any changes or observations to the assigned supervisor. 
 
3. Training – The volunteers must receive appropriate documented training which 
shall include at a minimum: 
 
a. An introduction to hospice; 
 
b. The role of the volunteer in hospice; 
 
c. Concepts of death and dying; 
 
d. Communication skills; 
 
e. Care and comfort measures; 
 
f. Diseases and medical conditions; 
 
g. Psychosocial and spiritual issues related to death and dying; 
 
h. The concept of the hospice family; 
 
i. Stress management; 
 
j. Bereavement; 
 
k. Infection control; 
 
l. Safety; 
 
m. Confidentiality; 
 
<<<PAGE 38>>>
38  
 
n. Patient rights; 
 
o. The role of the IDT; and 
 
p. Additional supplemental training for volunteers working in specialized program 
(i.e. Nursing  homes, AIDS facilities). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 19 PATIENT CARE SERVICES 
 
Rule 1.19.1 Patient Care Standard 
 
1. Patient Certification –To be eligible for hospice care, an individual, or his/her 
representative, must sign an election statement with a licensed hospice; the 
individual must have a certification of terminal illness and must have a plan of 
care (POC) which is established before services are provided. 
 
2. Admission criteria – The hospice shall have written policies to be followed in 
making decisions regarding acceptance of patients for care.  Decisions are based 
upon medical, physical, and psychosocial information provided by the patient’s 
attending physician, the patient/family and the interdisciplinary group.  The 
admission criteria shall include: 
 
a. The ability of the agency to provide core services on a 24-hour basis and provide 
for or arrange for non-core services on a 24-hour basis to the extent necessary to 
meet the needs of individuals for care that is reasonable and necessary for the 
palliation and management of terminal illness and related  conditions; 
 
b. Certification of terminal illness signed by the attending physician and the 
medical director of the agency upon admission and recertification; 
 
c. A documented assessment of the patient/family needs and desires for hospice 
services; 
 
d. Informed consent signed by patient or representative who is authorized in 
accordance with state law to elect the hospice care, which will include the 
purpose and scope of hospice services. 
 
3. Admission Procedure – Patients are to be admitted only upon the order of the 
patient’s attending physician. 
 
4. An assessment visit shall be made by a registered nurse, who will assess the 
patient’s needs with emphasis on pain and symptom control.  This assessment 
shall occur within 48 hours of referral for admission, unless otherwise ordered by 
physician or unless a request for delay is made by patient/family. 
<<<PAGE 39>>>
39  
 
5. Documentation at admission will be retained in the clinical record and shall 
include: 
 
a. Signed consent forms; 
 
b. Documented evidence that a patient’s rights statement has been given or 
explained to the patient and/or family; 
 
c. Clinical data including physician’s order for care; 
 
d. Patient Release of Information; 
 
e. Orientation of the patient/care giver, which includes: 
 
i. Advanced directives; 
 
ii. Agency services; 
 
iii. Patient’s rights; and 
 
iv. agency contact procedures; 
 
f. Certification of terminal illness signed by the medical director and attending 
physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.2 Plan of Care (POC) - Within 48 hours of the admission, a written plan of care 
must be developed for each patient/family by a minimum of two IDT members 
and approved by the full IDT and the Medical Director at the next meeting. The 
care provided to an individual must be in accordance with the POC. 
 
1. The IDT member who assesses the patient’s needs must meet or call at least one 
other IDT member before writing the IPOC.  At least one of the persons involved 
in developing the IPOC must be a registered nurse or physician.   
 
2. At a minimum the POC will include the following: 
 
a. An assessment of the individual’s needs and identification of services, including 
the management of discomfort and symptom relief; 
 
b. In detail, the scope and frequency of services needed to meet the patient’s and 
family’s needs.  The frequency of services established in the POC will be 
sufficient to effectively manage the terminal diagnosis of the patient, provide 
appropriate amounts of counseling to the family, and meet or exceed nationally 
accepted hospice standards of practice; 
<<<PAGE 40>>>
40  
 
c. Identification of problems with realistic and achievable goals and objectives; 
 
d. Medical supplies and appliances including drugs and biologicals needed for the 
palliation and management of the terminal  illness and related conditions; 
 
e. Patient/family understanding, agreement and involvement with the POC; and 
 
f. Recognition of the patient/family’s physiological, social, religious and cultural 
variables and values. 
 
3. The POC must be maintained on file as part of the individual’s clinical record. 
Documentation of updates shall be maintained. 
 
4. The hospice will designate a registered nurse to coordinate the implementation of 
the POC for each patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.3 Review and Update of the Plan of Care 
 
1. The plan of care is reviewed and updated at intervals specified in the POC, when 
the patient’s condition changes and a minimum of every 14 days for home care 
and every 7 days for general inpatient care, collaboratively with the IDT and the 
attending physician. 
 
2. Agency shall have policy and procedures for the following: 
 
a. The attending physician’s participation in the development, revision, and 
approval of the POC is documented.  This is evidenced by change in patient 
orders and documented communication between Hospice Staff and the attending 
physician; 
 
b. Physician orders must be signed and dated in a timely manner, but must be 
received before billing is submitted for each patient. 
 
3. The agency shall have documentation that the patient’s condition and POC is 
reviewed and the POC updated, even  when the patient’s condition does not 
change. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.4 Coordination and Continuity of Care:  The hospice shall adhere to the following 
additional principles and responsibilities: 
 
<<<PAGE 41>>>
41  
1. An assessment of the patient/family needs and desire for hospice services and a 
hospice program’s specific admission, transfer, and discharge criteria determine 
any changes in services; 
 
2. Nursing services, physician services, and drugs and biologicals are routinely 
available to hospice patients on a 24 hour basis, seven days a week; 
 
3. All other covered services are available on a 24 hour basis to the extent necessary 
to meet the needs of individuals for care that is reasonable and necessary for the 
palliation and management of terminal illness and related conditions; 
 
4. Case-management is provided and an accurate and complete documented record 
of services and activities describing care of patient/family is maintained; 
 
5. Collaboration with other providers to ensure coordination of services; 
 
6. Maintenance of professional management responsibility and coordination of the 
patient/family care regardless of the setting; 
 
7. Maintenance of contracts/agreements for the provision of services not directly 
provided by the hospice, including but not limited to: 
 
a. Radiation therapy; 
 
b. Infusion therapy; 
 
c. Inpatient care; 
 
d. Consulting physician. 
 
8. Provision or access to emergency medical care; 
 
9. When home care is no longer possible, assistance to the patient in transferring to 
an appropriate setting where hospice care can be delivered; 
 
10. When the patient is admitted to a setting where hospice care cannot be delivered, 
hospice adheres to standards, policies and procedures on transfer and discharge 
and facilitates the patient’s transfer to another care provider; 
 
11. Maintenance of appropriately qualified IDT health care professionals and 
volunteers to meet patients need; 
 
12. Maintenance and documentation of a volunteer staff to provide administrative or 
direct patient care.  The hospice must document a continuing level of volunteer 
activity 
 
<<<PAGE 42>>>
42  
13. Coordination of the IDT, as well as of volunteers, by a qualified health care 
professional, to assure continuous assessment, continuity of care and 
implementation of the POC; 
 
14. Supervision and professional consultation by qualified personnel, available to 
staff and volunteers during all hours of service; 
 
15. Hospice care provided in accordance with accepted professional standards and 
accepted code of ethics; 
 
16. The facility must proceed in accordance with written policy at the time of death of 
the patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.5 Pharmaceutical Services 
 
1. Hospices must provide for the pharmaceutical needs of the patient as related to 
the terminal diagnosis. 
 
2. The agency shall institute procedures which protect the patient from medication 
errors. 
 
3. The Agency shall provide verbal and written instruction to patient and family 
regarding the administration of their medications, as indicated. 
 
4. Drugs and treatments are administered by agency staff as ordered by the 
physician. 
 
5. The hospice must ensure appropriate monitoring and supervision of 
pharmaceutical services and have written policies and procedures governing 
prescribing, dispensing, administering, controlling, storing and disposing of all 
biologicals and drugs in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 
 
6. The hospice must ensure timely pharmaceutical services on a 24 hour a day/seven 
day a week basis that include provision of drugs, biologicals and infusion services 
which are consistent with patient’s individual drug profile. 
 
7. The hospice must provide the IDT and the patient/family with coordinated 
information and instructions about individual drug profiles. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.6 Pathology and Laboratory Services -  The hospice must provide or have access 
to pathology and laboratory services which comply with CLIA guidelines and that 
meets the patient’s plan of care. 
 
<<<PAGE 43>>>
43  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.7 Radiology Services -   The hospice must provide radiology services in accordance 
with the patient’s plan of care.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.8 Discharge/Revocation/Transfer -  The hospice must provide adequate and 
appropriate patient/family information at discharge, revocation or transfer. 
 
1. Discharge – The patient shall be discharged only in the following circumstances: 
 
a. The patient is determined to no longer be terminally Ill with a life expectancy of 
six months or less; 
 
b. Patient relocates from the hospice’s geographically defined service area; 
 
c. If the safety of the patient or of the hospice staff is compromised.  The hospice 
shall make every effort to resolve these problems satisfactorily before discharge.  
All efforts by the hospice to resolve the problem must be documented in detail 
in the patient’s clinical record; and 
 
d. If the patient enters a non-contracted nursing home  or hospital and all options 
have been exhausted (a contract is not attainable, the patient chooses not to 
transfer to a facility with which the hospice has a contract, or to a hospice with 
which the SNF has a contract), the hospice shall then discharge the patient. 
 
e. The hospice must clearly document reasons for discharge. 
 
2. Revocation – Occurs when the patient or representative makes a decision to 
discontinue receiving hospices services: 
 
a. A recipient may revoke hospice care at any time; 
 
b. If a patient or representative chooses to revoke from hospice care, the patient 
must sign a statement which states that he or she is aware of the revocation and 
stating why revocation is chosen.  The effective date of discharge cannot be 
earlier than the signed revocation date. 
 
3. Non compliance – When a patient is non-compliant, the hospice must counsel the 
patient/family on the option to revoke and any advantages or disadvantages of the 
decision that is made.  A patient is considered non-compliant if: 
 
a. The patient seeks or receives curative treatment for the illness; 
 
b. The patient seeks treatment related to the terminal illness in a facility that does 
not have a contract with the hospice; or 
<<<PAGE 44>>>
44  
 
c. The patient seeks treatment related to the terminal  illness that is not in the POC, 
or is not pre-approved by the hospice. 
 
4. Transfer – The hospice must document the reason for such transfer and an 
appropriate discharge plan/summary is to be written.  Appropriate continuity of 
care is to be arranged prior to such transfer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.9 Patient Rights and Responsibilities - The hospice shall insure that the patient 
has the right to: 
 
1. Be cared for by a team of professionals who provide health quality comprehensive 
hospice services as needed and appropriate for patient/family; 
 
2. Have a clear understanding of the availability of hospice services and the hospice 
team 24 hours a day, seven days a week; 
 
3. Receive appropriate and compassionate care, regardless of diagnosis, race, age, 
gender, creed, disability, sexual orientation, place of residence, or the ability to 
pay for the services rendered; 
 
4. Be fully informed regarding patient’s status in order to participate in the POC.  
The hospice professional team will assist patient/family in identifying which 
services and treatments will help attain these goals; 
 
5. Be fully informed regarding the potential benefits and risks of all medical 
treatments or services suggested, and to accept or refuse those treatments and/or 
services as appropriate to patient/family personal wishes; 
 
6. Refuse any treatment without severing his/her relationship with the hospice; 
 
7. Choose his/her private physician as long as the attending physician agrees to 
abide by the policies of the hospice program; 
 
8. Be treated with respect and dignity; 
 
9. Confidentiality with regard to provision of services and all client records, 
including information concerning patient/family health status, as well as social, 
and/or financial circumstances.  The patient information and/or records may be 
released only with patient/family’s written consent, and/or as required by law; 
 
10. Voice grievances concerning patient care, treatment and/or respect for person or 
privacy without being subject to discrimination or reprisal, and have any such 
complaints investigated by the hospice; and 
 
<<<PAGE 45>>>
45  
11. Be informed of any fees or charges in advance of services for which 
patient/family may be liable. Patient/family has the right to access any insurance 
or entitlement program for which patient may be eligible. 
 
12. The patient has the responsibility to: 
 
a. Participate in developing the POC and update as his or her condition/needs 
change; 
 
b. Provide hospice with his/her accurate and complete health information; 
 
c. Remain under a physician’s care while receiving hospice services; and 
 
d. Assist hospice staff in developing and maintaining a safe environment in which 
patient care can be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.19.10 Clinical Records - In accordance with accepted principles of practice the hospice 
shall establish and maintain a clinical record for every individual receiving care 
and services.  The record shall be complete, promptly and accurately documented, 
readily accessible and systematically organized to facilitate  retrieval.  The clinical 
record shall contain all pertinent past and current medical, nursing, social and 
other therapeutic information, including the current POC under which services are 
being delivered. 
 
1. All clinical records shall be safeguarded against loss, destruction and 
unauthorized use and shall be maintained at the hospice site issued the license. 
(S.O.M. 208.1) 
 
2. Hospice records must be maintained in a distinct location and not mingled with 
records of other types of health care related agencies. 
 
3. Clinical records shall be kept in a safe and confidential area which provides 
convenient access to clinicians. 
 
4. The agency shall have policies addressing who is permitted access to the clinical 
records.  No unauthorized person shall be permitted access to the clinical records. 
 
5. Records shall be maintained from the patient’s effective date of discharge, as per 
State law. 
 
6. When applicable, the agency will obtain a signed “Release of Information” from 
the patient and /or the patient’s family.  A copy will be retained in the record. 
 
7. The clinical record shall contain a comprehensive compilation of information 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
<<<PAGE 46>>>
46  
 
 
a. Initial and subsequent Plans of Care and initial assessment; 
 
b. Certifications of terminal illness; 
 
c. Written physician’s orders for admission and changes to the POC; 
 
d. Current clinical notes (at least the past sixty (60) days; 
 
e. Plan of Care; 
 
f. Signed consent, authorization and election forms; 
 
g. Pertinent medical history; and 
 
h. Identifying data, including name, address, date of birth, sex, agency case number 
and next of kin. 
 
8. Entries for all provided services must be documented in the clinical record and 
must be signed by the staff providing the service. 
 
9. Complete documentation of all services and event (including evaluations, 
treatments, progress notes, etc.) are recorded whether furnished directly by 
hospice staff or by arrangement. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 20    ADMINISTRATION 
 
Rule 1.20.1 Agency Operations  
 
1. The hospice must have adequate space and resources for all operational and 
patient care needs. 
 
2. The hospice shall not share office space with a non-healthcare related entity.   
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.20.2 Hours of Operation - The hospice shall be required to have regular posted (in a 
prominent and easily accessible manner) business hours and be fully operational 
at least eight hours a day, five days a week between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.  
Hospice services shall be available 24 hours per day, seven days a week, which 
include, at a minimum: 
 
1. Professional registered nurse services; 
 
<<<PAGE 47>>>
47  
2. Palliative medications; 
 
3. Other services, equipment or supplies necessary to meet the patient’s immediate 
needs. 
 
4. Hospice provides on-call medical and nursing services to assess and meet 
changing patient/family needs, provide instruction and support, and conduct 
additional on-site assessment or treatment, 24 hours a day, seven days per week. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.20.3 Policies and Procedures 
 
1. Must be written, current, and reviewed annually by appropriate personnel. 
 
2. Must contain policies and procedures specific to the agency addressing personnel 
standards and qualifications, agency operations, patient care standards, problem 
and complaint resolution, purpose and goals of operation, management/operation 
of the hospice’s defined service area and a formal disaster preparedness plan as 
referenced in Subchapter 47.      
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.20.4 Contract Services 
 
1. When the hospice provides services on a contractual basis to a patient the hospice 
is responsible for all actions of the contract personnel. 
 
2. The hospice shall not at any time use contract employees as 
administrator/alternate or for the provision of core services unless the facility 
provides documentation that a waiver has been granted in accordance with 
certification requirements.  
 
3. Whenever services are provided by an organization or individual other than the 
hospice, a written agreement will delineate services available and procedures for 
accessing those services. 
 
4. Whenever services are provided by an outside agency or individual, a legally 
binding written agreement must be effected.  The legally binding written 
agreement shall include at least the following items: 
 
a. Identification of the services to be provided; 
 
b. A stipulation that services may be provided only with the express authorization 
of the hospice; 
 
<<<PAGE 48>>>
48  
c. The manner in which the contracted services are coordinated, supervised, and 
evaluated by the hospice; 
d. The delineation of the role(s) of the hospice and the contractor in the admission 
process, patient/family assessment, and the IDT conferences; 
 
e. Requirements for documenting that services are furnished in accordance with 
the agreement; 
 
f. The qualifications of the personnel providing the services; 
 
g. Assurance that the personnel contracted complete  the clinical record in the 
same timely manner as required by the staff personnel of the hospice; 
 
h. Payment fees and terms; and 
 
i. Statement that the hospice retains responsibility for appropriate hospice care 
training of the personnel who provide care under the agreement. 
 
5. The hospice shall document review of its contract on an annual basis. 
 
6. The hospice is to coordinate services with contract personnel to assure continuity 
of patient care. 
 
7. Hospice maintains professional management responsibilities for those services 
and ensures that they are furnished in a safe and effective manner by qualified 
persons and in accordance with the patient’s POC. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.20.5 Quality Assurance 
 
1. The hospice shall conduct an ongoing, comprehensive integrated self-assessment 
quality improvement process (inclusive of inpatient care, home care and respite 
care) which evaluates not only the quality of care provided, but also the 
appropriateness care/services provided and evaluations of such services. Findings 
shall be documented and used by the hospice to correct identified problems and to 
revise hospice policies. 
 
2. The hospice shall have written plans, policies and procedures addressing quality 
assurance. 
 
3. The hospice shall designate, in writing, an individual responsible for the 
coordination of the quality improvement program.  
 
4. The hospice shall conduct quality improvement meetings quarterly, at a 
minimum. 
 
<<<PAGE 49>>>
49  
5. The Hospice’s written plan for continually assessing and improving all aspects of 
operations must include: 
 
a. Goals and objectives; 
 
b. A system to ensure systematic, objective quarterly  reports.  Documentation must 
be maintained to reflect that such reports were reviewed with the  IDT, the 
Medical Director, the Governing Body and distributed to appropriate areas; 
 
c. The method for evaluating the quality and the appropriateness of care; 
 
d. A method for resolving identified problems; and 
 
e. Application to improving the quality of patient care. 
 
6. Quality assessment and improvement activities are based on the systematic 
collection, review, and evaluation of data which, at a minimum, includes: 
 
a. Services provided by professional and volunteer staff; 
 
b. Outcome audits of patient charts; 
 
c. Reports from staff, volunteers, and clients about services; 
 
d. Concerns or suggestion for improvement in services; 
 
e. Organizational review of the hospice program; 
 
f. Patient/family evaluations of care; and 
 
g. High-risk, high-volume and problem-prone activities. 
 
7. The quality improvement plan must be reviewed at least annually and revised as 
appropriate. 
 
8. When problems are identified in the provision of hospice care, there shall be 
evidence of corrective actions, including ongoing monitoring, revisions of 
policies and procedures,  educational intervention and changes in the 
provision of services. 
 
9. The effectiveness of actions taken to improve services or correct identified 
problems must be evaluated/documented. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.20.6 Branch Offices 
 
<<<PAGE 50>>>
50  
1. No Branch Office may be opened without written approval from Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
 
2. No Branch Office shall be opened unless the parent office has had full licensure 
for a full twelve(12) months preceding the request and  has admitted at least ten 
(10) patients within the last annual renewal cycle. 
 
3. Each Branch must serve the same or part of the geographic service area approved 
for the parent. 
 
4. Each Branch Office shall be open for business the same hours as required for the 
parent office, must have a registered nurse immediately available to be on site, or 
on site in the branch office at all times during operating hours.  
 
5. All hospice patient’s clinical records must be maintained at the hospice site issued 
the provider license (S.O.M. 208.1).  Duplicate records may be maintained at the 
Branch Office. 
 
6. Original personnel files are to be kept at the Parent office, but shall be made 
available, upon request, to federal/state surveyors during any review of the 
branch. 
 
7. A statement of personnel policies is maintained in each Branch for staff usage. 
 
8. Approval for Branch Offices will be issued, in writing, by Mississippi State 
Department of Health for one year and will be renewed at time of re-licensure, if 
the branch office meets the following criteria: 
 
a. Is operational and providing hospice services; 
 
b. Offer exact same services as the parent office; and 
 
c. Parent office meets requirements for full licensure. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 21 BASIC HOSPICE CARE:  CORE SERVICES 
 
Rule 1.21.1 Hospice care shall be provided by a hospice care team.  Medical, nursing and 
counseling services are basic to hospice care and shall be provided directly 
(Medical Director only may be contract).  Hospice care will be available twenty-
four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week. 
 
1. Medical services shall be under the direction of the Medical Director. 
 
2. Nursing services shall be under the direction of a registered nurse and shall 
include, but not be limited to:  assessment, planning and delivery of nursing care; 
<<<PAGE 51>>>
51  
carrying out physician’s orders; documentation; evaluation of nursing care; and 
direction of patient care provided by non-professionals. 
 
 
3. Counseling services shall be provided in a manner which best assists the patient 
and family unit to cope with the stresses related to the patient’s condition.  These 
services may be provided by a member of the clergy who is qualified through 
training and/or experience to provide such services, or by other qualified 
counselor(s).  Such counselors shall be licensed, if applicable. 
 
4. Social services shall be directed by a social worker, and shall consist primarily of 
assisting the patient and family unit to deal with problems of social functioning 
affecting the health or well-being of the patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 22 OTHER SERVICES 
 
Rule 1.22.1 Coordination of patient care shall be the responsibility of a  registered nurse of 
hospice care team.  Duties include coordination of team meetings, care delivery, 
and evaluation of activities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.22.2 Spiritual services shall be available and offered to the patient and family unit; 
however, no value or belief system may be imposed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.22.3 Volunteer services shall be provided by the hospice.  These services shall be 
provided according to written policies and procedures.  These policies and 
procedures shall address at a minimum: 
 
1. Recruitment and retention; 
2. Screening; 
3. Orientation; 
4. Scope of function; 
5. Supervision; 
6. Ongoing training and support; 
7. Documentation of volunteer activities. 
<<<PAGE 52>>>
52  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.22.4 Bereavement services shall be available for a period of at least one  year following 
the patient’s death.  Such services shall be defined by policy.  Documentation of 
such services shall be maintained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.22.5 Hospice aide services shall be available and adequate to meet the needs of the 
patient.  The hospice aide shall meet the federal and state training requirements. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 23 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS PLAN  (Refer to Subchapter 48) 
 
Subchapter 24 MEDICAL WASTE   (Refer to Subchapter 43) 
 
Subchapter 25 RESPITE – INPATIENT CARE 
 
Rule 1.25.1 If a hospice is not based in a licensed facility (hospital or nursing home); a 
contractual arrangement shall be made with one or more such facilities for 
provision of respite-inpatient services.  Inpatient beds under such contract may be 
used by the hospice when needed or may remain otherwise available to the 
inpatient unit at other times without a change in licensing. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.25.2 Such contract shall be maintained with an inpatient provider who contractually 
agrees to support the policies of hospice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.25.3 The hospice care team shall retain the responsibility for coordinating the patient’s 
care during inpatient hospice care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.25.4 The aggregate number of inpatient days provided by a hospice through all 
contractual arrangements between the hospice and licensed health care facilities 
providing inpatient hospice care may not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the 
aggregate total number of days of hospice care provided to all patients receiving 
hospice care from the hospice during a twelve (12) month period. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 53>>>
53  
Rule 1.25.5 The designation of a specific room or rooms for inpatient hospice care shall not be 
required if beds are available through contract between an existing healthcare 
facility and a hospice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.25.6 Licensed beds designated for inpatient hospice care through contract between an 
existing health care facility and a hospice shall not be required to be de-licensed 
from one type of bed in order to enter into a contract with a hospice, nor shall the 
physical plant of any facility be required to be altered, except that a homelike 
atmosphere may be required. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.25.7 Staffing standards for inpatient hospice care provided through a contract may not 
exceed the staffing standards required under the license held by the contractee. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.25.8 Under no circumstance may a hospice contract for the use of a licensed bed in a 
health care facility or another hospice that has, or has had within the last eighteen 
(18) months, a suspended, revoked or conditional license, accreditation or rating. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 26 IN-SERVICE TRAINING 
 
Rule 1.26.1 The hospice shall provide ongoing, relevant in-service training for all members of 
the hospice care team.  (For hospice aide training, refer to section titled Personnel 
Qualification/Responsibility.) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.26.2 For each direct-care employee, the hospice shall require training of twelve (12) 
hours inservice education, at a minimum annually. Documentation of such 
training shall be maintained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.26.3 The hospice shall provide relevant inservice training on a quarterly basis for 
volunteers. Documentation of the offered inservices and attendees shall be 
maintained.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 27 RECORDS 
 
<<<PAGE 54>>>
54  
Rule 1.27.1 In accordance with acceptable principles of practice, the hospice shall establish 
and maintain a clinical record for every patient admitted for care and services.  
The records must be complete, promptly and accurately documented, readily 
accessible and systematically organized to facilitate retrieval. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.27.2 Content - Each clinical record shall be comprehensive compilation of 
information.  Entries shall be made for all services provided and shall be signed 
and dated within 7 days by the individual providing the services.  The record shall 
include all services whether furnished directly or under arrangements made by the 
hospice.  Each patient’s record shall contain: 
 
1. Identification data; 
2. The initial and subsequent assessments; 
3. The plan of care; 
4. Consent and authorization forms; 
5. Pertinent medical and psychosocial history; 
6. Complete documentation of all services and events (including evaluations, 
treatments, progress notes, etc.) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.27.3 Protection of Information. The hospice shall safeguard the clinical record 
against loss, destruction and unauthorized use. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.27.4 Retention of Records:  Clinical records shall be preserved as original records, 
micro-films or other usable forms and shall be such as to afford a basis for 
complete audit of professional information.  Complete clinical records shall be 
retained for a period after discharge of the patient of at least five (5) years. In the 
event the hospice shall cease operation, the Department shall be advised of the 
location of said records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 28 SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT 
 
Rule 1.28.1 The hospice shall provide supplies and equipment related to the terminal illness. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 55>>>
55  
Subchapter 29 DRUG ADMINISTRATION 
 
Rule 1.29.1 The hospice shall have a written policy for procurement, administration and 
destruction of drugs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.29.2 Drug administration shall be in compliance with all applicable state and federal 
laws 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.29.3 The hospice shall have a standardized mechanism to record scheduled   
  medications written for patients and a standardized program for the collection and 
  disposal of all medications upon a patient’s death.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Subchapter 30 PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
 
Rule 1.30.1 Each hospice office shall be commensurate in size for the volume of staff, 
patients, and services provided. Offices shall be well-lighted, heated and cooled.  
Offices shall be accessible to the individuals with disabilities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 31 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES 
 
Rule 1.31.1 Each hospice shall provide adequate office space and equipment for all 
administrative and health care staff.  An adequate number of desks, chairs, filing 
cabinets, telephones, tables, etc., shall be available. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 32 STORAGE FACILITIES 
 
Rule 1.32.1  Each Hospice shall provide sufficient areas for storage of: 
 
1. Administrative records and supplies 
2. Clinical Records 
3. Medical equipment and supplies 
 
<<<PAGE 56>>>
56  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 33 TOILET FACILITIES 
 
Rule 1.33.1 Each hospice office shall be equipped with an adequate number of  toilet rooms.  
Each toilet room shall include:  lavatories, soap, towels, and water closets. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 34 COMMUNICATION FACILITIES 
 
Rule 1.34.1 Each Hospice Agency shall have an adequate number of telephones and 
extensions, located so as to be quickly accessible from all parts of the building.  
The telephone shall be listed under the official licensed name of the agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 35 INPATIENT FACILITY 
 
Rule 1.35.1 Inpatient hospice staffing – An inpatient hospice must maintain the coverage of 
a registered nurse twenty-four (24) hours a day.  Other medical/nursing personnel 
must be available to meet the needs of the patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.35.2 Medical Director-Inpatient Services-The hospice inpatient facility shall have a 
Medical Director who is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy and is currently 
licensed to practice medicine in Mississippi. The Medical Director must ensure 
and assume the overall responsibility for the medical component of the hospice’s 
inpatient care services 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.35.3 Nursing Services-Inpatient Services- The inpatient hospice facility shall provide 
an organized 24-hour  nursing service.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.35.4 The nursing service shall be under the direction of a Director of Nursing Services 
who is a registered nurse licensed to practice in Mississippi. The Director of Nurses 
is prohibited from simultaneous employment with more than one agency. Each 
facility shall provide a similarly qualified registered nurse available to act in the 
absence of the Director of Nursing Services. A registered nurse shall be responsible 
to assure the accurate assessment, development of a plan of care, implementation 
and evaluation o f each patient’s plan of care. Nursing care is administered and 
delegated in accordance with acceptable standards of nursing practice and the 
Mississippi Nurse Practice Act. Nursing staff must be available on the premises 
<<<PAGE 57>>>
57  
twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. There shall be a registered nurse on 
duty at all times when there are patients in the facility. When there are no patients 
in the facility, the hospice shall have a registered nurse on call to be immediately 
available. The facility shall provide sufficient nursing personnel to meet each 
patient’s needs in accordance with the patient’s plan of care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.35.5  Pharmaceutical Services of Inpatient Hospice- The hospice shall provide 
pharmaceutical services in accordance with acceptable professional standards of 
nursing and pharmaceutical practice and State law. The hospice shall have 
policies and procedures that address receipt, storage, dispensing, labeling, 
medication administration, all aspects of controlled substance  storage, usage, 
and  disposal of controlled substances, the handling of medication errors and 
components for incorporating pharmacy practices into the facility’s overall 
quality improvement plan. Each inpatient pharmacy shall maintain a current 
pharmacy permit or registration, as applicable to the services offered. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 36 FOOD SERVICE IN INPATIENT HOSPICE 
 
Rule 1.36.1 Direction and Supervision – The inpatient hospice facility shall provide well-
planned, attractive, and satisfying meals which will meet their nutritional, social, 
emotional, and therapeutic needs.  The dietary department of a hospice shall be 
directed by a registered dietitian, certified dietary manager, or a qualified dietary 
manager.  If a food service supervisor is the director, she must receive regularly 
scheduled consultation, at a minimum monthly, from a registered dietitian. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 37 FOOD HANDLING PROCEDURES 
 
Rule 1.37.1 Clean Rooms – Floors, walls, and ceilings of rooms in food service area shall be 
free of an accumulation of rubbish, dust, grease and dirt. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.2 Clean Equipment – Equipment within the food service area shall be clean and 
free of dust, grease, and dirt 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.3 Tables and Counters – Tables and counters which are used for food service shall 
be kept clean. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 58>>>
58  
Rule 1.37.4 Clean Utensils – Service utensils shall be cleaned after each use.  Utensils used 
for food storage shall be kept clean. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.5 Dish and Utensil Washing – Dishes and utensils used for eating, drinking, and in 
preparation or serving food and drink shall be cleaned after each use in 
accordance with the regulations of the Mississippi State Department of Health 
governing food handling establishments. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.6 Ice – Ice to be served shall be of sanitary quality.  Ice shall be handled, crushed, 
and stored in clean equipment and shall not be served by direct contact of fingers 
or hands but only with spoons, scoops, or the like. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.7 Protection from Contamination – All foods and food ingredients  shall be so 
stored, handled, and served so as to be protected from dust, flies, roaches, rats, 
unsanitary handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage, sewage backflow and 
any other contamination.  Sugar, syrup and condiment receptacles shall be 
provided with lids and shall be kept covered when not in use. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.8 Storage and Service of Milk and Ice Cream  
 
1. All milk and fluid milk products shall be stored and served in accordance with 
regulations of the Department of Health governing the production and sale of milk 
and milk products. 
 
2. All ice cream and other frozen desserts shall be from an approved source.  Ice 
cream shall be stored in covered containers.  No contaminating substance shall be 
stored with ice cream. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.9 Kitchen Garbage and Trash Handling 
 
1. Kitchen garbage and trash shall be placed in suitable containers with tight-fitting 
lids and stored in a screened or refrigerated space pending removal.  Kitchen 
garbage and trash shall not be allowed to accumulate in the kitchen and shall be 
removed from the premises at frequent intervals. 
 
2. After being emptied, all garbage and trash cans shall be washed and dried before 
re-use. 
<<<PAGE 59>>>
59  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.10 Employee Cleanliness 
 
1. Employees engaged in handling, preparation, and/or serving of food shall wear 
clean clothing at all times.  They shall wear hair nets, head bands, or caps to 
prevent the falling of hair. 
 
2. Employee handling food shall wash their hands thoroughly before starting to 
work, immediately after contact with any soiled matter, and before returning to 
work after each visit to the toilet room. 
 
3. Street clothing of employees shall be stored in lockers or dressing rooms. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.11 Smoking and Expectorating – Smoking or expectorating within the food service 
area shall not be permitted. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.37.12 Dining in Kitchen – Eating or dining in the food preparation area or kitchen shall 
not be permitted. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 38 MEAL SERVICE 
 
Rule 1.38.1 Meals and Nutrition – At least three (3) meals in each twenty-four (24) hours 
shall be provided.  The daily food allowance shall meet the current recommended 
dietary allowances of the Food and Nutrition Board of National Research Council 
adjusted for individual needs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.2 Menu – The menu shall be planned and written at least one (1) week in advance.  
The current week’s menu shall be signed by the dietitian, dated, posted in the 
kitchen and followed as planned.  Substitutions and changes on all diets shall be 
documented in writing.  Copies of menus and substitutions shall be kept on file 
for at least thirty (30) days. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.3 Timing of Meals – A time schedule for serving meals to patients or residents and 
personnel shall be established.  Meals shall be served approximately five (5) 
hours apart with no more than fourteen (14) hours between a substantial evening 
<<<PAGE 60>>>
60  
meal and breakfast.  The time schedule of meals shall be posted with the  menu 
on the board.  Bedtime/in between meal snacks of nourishing quality must be 
offered to patients not on diets prohibiting such nourishment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.4 Modification in Regular Diets – Modified diets which are a part of medical 
treatment shall be prescribed in written orders by the physician, for example; 
sodium restricted diets; bland-low residue diets; and modification in 
carbohydrates, protein, or fat.  All modified diets shall be planned in writing and 
posted along with regular menus.  A current diet manual shall be available to 
personnel.  The registered dietitian shall approve all modified diet menus and diet 
manual used in the facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.5 Food Preparation – Foods shall be prepared by methods that conserve optimum 
nutritive value, flavor, and appearance.  The food shall be acceptable to the 
individuals served. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.6 Food Supply – Supplies of perishable foods for at least a twenty-four (24) hour 
period and or non-perishable foods for a three (3) day period shall be on the 
premises to meet the requirements of the planned menus.  The non-perishable 
foods shall consist of commercial type processed foods. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.38.7 Serving of Meals 
 
1. Tables should be made available for all patients.  Patients who are not able to go 
to the dining room shall be provided sturdy tables (not TV trays) of proper 
heights.  For those who are bedfast or infirm, tray service shall be provided in 
their rooms with the tray resting on a firm support. 
 
2. Personnel eating meals or snacks on the premises shall be provided facilities 
separate from and outside of food preparation, tray service and dish washing 
areas. 
 
3. Foods shall be attractively and neatly served.  All foods shall be served at proper 
temperature.  Effective equipment shall be provided and procedures established to 
maintain food at proper temperature during serving. 
 
4. All trays, tables, utensils and supplies such as china, glassware, flatware, linens 
and paper placemats or tray covers used for meal service shall be appropriate, 
sufficient in quantity and in compliance with the applicable sanitation standard. 
<<<PAGE 61>>>
61  
 
 
5. Food Service personnel- A competent person shall be designated by the 
administrator to be responsible for the total food service. Sufficient staff shall be 
employed to meet the established standards of food service.  Provision should be 
made for adequate supervision and training of the employee. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 39 PHYSICAL PLANT FACILITIES 
 
Rule 1.39.1 Floors – Floors in food service areas shall be of such construction so as to be 
easily cleaned, sound, smooth, non-absorbent and without cracks or crevices. 
Floors shall be maintained in good repair. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.2 Walls and Ceilings – Walls and ceilings of food service areas shall be tight and 
of substantial construction, smoothly finished and painted in a light color.  The 
walls and ceilings shall be without horizontal ledges and shall be washable up to 
the highest level reached by splash and spray.  Roofs and walls shall be 
maintained free of leaks.  All openings to the exterior shall be provided with 
doors or windows that will prevent the entrance of rain or dust during inclement 
weather. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.3 Screens on Outside Openings – Openings to the outside shall be effectively 
screened.  Screen doors shall open outward and be equipped with self-closing 
devices. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.4 Lighting – The kitchen, dish washing area, and dining room shall be provided 
with well distributed and unobstructed natural light or openings.  Artificial light 
properly distributed and of an intensity of not less than thirty (30) foot candles 
shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.5 Ventilation – The food service area shall be ventilated in a manner that will 
maintain comfortable working conditions, remove objectionable odors and fumes, 
and prevent excessive condensations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 62>>>
62  
Rule 1.39.6 Employee Toilet Facilities – Toilet facilities shall be provided for employees.  
Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in which food is prepared, 
stored, displayed, or served, nor into any room in which utensils are washed or 
stored.  Toilet rooms shall have a lavatory and shall be well lighted and ventilated. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.7 Hand Washing Facilities – Hand washing facilities with hot and cold water, soap 
dispenser and a supply of soap and disposable towels shall be provided in all 
kitchens.  The use of a common towel is prohibited.  Hands shall not be washed in 
sinks where food is prepared or where utensils are cleaned. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.8 Refrigeration Facilities – Adequate refrigeration facilities, automatic in 
operation, for the storage of perishable foods shall be provided.  Where separate 
refrigeration can be provided, the recommended temperatures for storing 
perishable foods are thirty-two (32 degrees) to thirty-eight (38 degrees) 
Fahrenheit for meats, forty (40 degrees) Fahrenheit for dairy products, and forty-
five (45 degrees) Fahrenheit for fruits and vegetables.  All refrigerators shall be 
provided with thermometers.  Facilities with more than twenty-four (24) beds 
shall have commercial or institutional type refrigeration. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.9 Equipment or Utensil Construction – Equipment and utensils shall be 
constructed so as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in good repair 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.39.10 Separation of Kitchen from Resident Rooms and Sleeping Quarters – Any 
room used for sleeping quarters shall be separated from the food service area by a 
solid wall.  Sleeping accommodations such as a cot, bed, or couch shall not be 
permitted within the food service area 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 40 AREAS AND EQUIPMENT 
 
Rule 1.40.1 Location and Space Requirements – Food service facilities shall be located in a 
specifically designated area and shall include the following rooms and/or spaces:  
kitchen, dishwashing, food storage, and dining room. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.40.2 Kitchen 
 
<<<PAGE 63>>>
63  
1. Size and Dimensions – The minimum area of kitchen (food preparation only) for 
less than twenty-five (25) beds shall be two hundred (200) square feet.  In 
facilities with twenty-five (25) to sixty (60) beds, a minimum area of ten (10) 
square feet per bed shall be provided.  In facilities with sixty-on (61) to eighty 
(80) beds, a minimum of six (6) square feet per bed shall be provided for each bed 
over sixty (60). In facilities with eighty-one (81) to one hundred (100) beds, a 
minimum of five (5) square feet per bed shall be provided for each bed over 
eighty (80).  In facilities with more than one hundred (100) beds, proportionate 
space as approved by the licensing agency shall be provided.  The kitchen shall be 
of such size and dimensions in order to: 
 
a. Permit orderly and sanitary handling and processing of food; 
 
b. Avoid overcrowding and congestion of operations; 
 
c. Provide at least three (3) feet between working areas and wider if space is used 
as a passageway; 
 
d. Provide a ceiling height of at least eight (8) feet. 
 
2. Minimum equipment in kitchen shall include:  
 
a. Range and cooking equipment – Facility with more than twenty-four (24) beds 
shall have institutional type ranges, ovens, steam cookers, fryers, etc., in 
appropriate sizes and numbers to meet the food preparation needs of the facility.  
The cooking  equipment shall be equipped with a hood vented to the outside as 
appropriate. 
 
b. Refrigerator and freezers – Facilities with more than twenty-four (24) beds shall 
have sufficient commercial or institutional type refrigeration/freezer units to 
meet the storage needs of the facility. 
 
c. Bulletin Board 
 
d. Clock 
 
e. Cook’s table 
 
f. Counter or table for tray set-up 
 
g. Cans, garbage (heavy plastic or galvanized) 
 
h. Lavatories, hand washing; conveniently located throughout the department 
 
i. Pot, pans, silverware, dishes, and glassware in sufficient numbers with storage 
space for each. 
<<<PAGE 64>>>
64  
 
j. Pot and pan sink – A three compartment sink shall be provided for cleaning pots 
and pans.  Each compartment shall be a minimum of twenty-four  (24) inches by 
twenty-four (24) inches by sixteen (16) inches.  A drain board of approximately 
thirty (30) inches shall be provided at each end of the sink, one to be used for 
stacking soiled utensils and  the other for draining clean utensils. 
k. Food Preparation Sink – A double compartment food preparation sink shall be 
provided for washing vegetables and other foods.  A drain board shall be 
provided at each end of the sink. 
 
l. Fire extinguisher, 20 BC rated (sodium bicarbonate or potassium bicarbonate) 
 
m. Ice machine – At least one ice machine shall be provided.  If there is only one 
(1) ice machine in the facility, it shall be located adjacent to but not in the 
kitchen.  If there is an ice machine located at nursing station, then the ice 
machine for dietary  shall be located in the kitchen. 
 
n. Office – An office shall be provided near the kitchen for the use of the food 
service supervisor.  At a minimum, the space provided shall be adequate for a 
desk, two chairs and a filing cabinet. 
 
o. Coffee, tea and milk dispenser – (Milk dispenser not required if milk is served in 
individual cartons. 
 
p. Tray assembly line equipment with tables, hot food tables, tray slide, etc. 
 
q. Ice Cream Storage 
 
r. Tray cart – (Hot food carts are desirable but not specifically required.) 
 
s. Mixer – Institutional type mixer of appropriate size for facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.40.3 Dishwashing – Commercial or institutional type dishwashing equipment shall be 
provided in facilities with more than twenty- four (24) beds.  The dishwashing 
area shall be separated from the food preparation area by a partition wall.  If 
sanitizing is to be accomplished by hot water, a minimum temperature of one 
hundred eighty degrees (180o) Fahrenheit shall be maintained during the rinsing 
cycle.  An alternate method of sanitizing through use of chemicals (chlorine) may 
be provided if sanitizing standards are observed in accordance with requirements 
as set forth by the Mississippi State Department of Health. Adequate counter 
space for stacking soiled dishes shall be provided in the dishwashing area at the 
most convenient place of entry from the dining room, followed by a disposer with 
can storage under the counter.  There shall be a pre-rinse sink, then the 
dishwasher and finally a counteror drain for clean dishes. The dishwashing areas 
shall have a wall or partition separating soiled and clean dish areas. 
<<<PAGE 65>>>
65  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.40.4 Food Storage – A food-storage room with cross-ventilation shall be provided.  
Adequate shelving, bins and heavy plastic or galvanized cans shall be provided.  
The storeroom shall be of such construction as to prevent the invasion of rodents 
and insects, the seepage of dust and water leakage, or any other source of 
contamination.  The food-storage room should be adjacent to the kitchen and 
convenient to the receiving area.  There shall be sufficient food storage area to 
meet need of the facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 41 SANITATION AND HOUSEKEEEPING IN PATIENT CARE 
 
Rule 1.41.1 Water Supply  
 
1. If at all possible, all water shall be obtained from a public water supply.  If not 
possible to obtain water from a public water supply source, the private water 
supply shall meet the approval of the local county health department and/or the 
Department of Health. 
 
2. Water under pressure sufficient to operate fixtures at the highest point during 
maximum periods shall be provided.  Water under pressure of at least fifteen (15) 
pounds per square inch shall be piped to all sink, toilets, lavatories, tubs, showers, 
and other fixtures requiring water. 
 
3. It is recommended that the water supply into the building can be obtained from 
two (2) separate water lines if possible. 
 
4. A dual hot water supply shall be provided.  The temperature of hot water to 
lavatories and bathing facilities shall not exceed one hundred ten degrees (110 
degrees) Fahrenheit, nor shall hot water be less than one hundred degrees (100 
degrees) Fahrenheit.   
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.41.2 Disposal of Liquid and Human Wastes 
 
1. There shall be installed within the building a properly designed waste disposal 
system connecting to all fixtures to which water under pressure is piped. 
 
2. All liquid and human waste, including floor-wash water and liquid waste from 
refrigerators, shall be disposed of through trapped drains into a public sewer 
system where such system is available. 
 
 
<<<PAGE 66>>>
66  
3. In localities where a public sanitary sewer is not available, liquid and human 
waste shall be disposed of through trapped drains into a sewerage disposal system 
approved by the local county health department and/or the Department of Health.  
The sewerage disposal system shall be of a size and capacity based on the number 
of patients and personnel housed and employed in the facility. Where the 
sewerage disposal system is installed prior to the opening of the facility, it shall 
be assumed, unless proven otherwise, that the system was designed for ten (10) or 
fewer persons. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.41.3 Premises –The premises shall be kept neat, clean, and free of an accumulation of 
rubbish, weeds, ponded water, or other conditions which would have a tendency 
to create a health hazard. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.41.4 Control of Insects, Rodents, Etc. – The institution shall be kept free of ants, 
flies, roaches, rodents, and other insects and vermin.  Proper methods of 
eradication and control shall be utilized through contract with a reputable licensed 
pest control company. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.41.5 Toilet Room Cleanliness – Floors, walls, ceilings and fixtures of all toilet rooms 
shall be kept clean and free of objectionable odors.  These rooms shall be kept 
free of an accumulation of rubbish, cleaning supplies, toilet articles, etc. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.41.6 Garbage Disposal  
 
1. Garbage must be kept in water-tight suitable containers with tight fitting covers.  
Garbage containers must be emptied at frequent intervals and cleaned before 
using again. 
 
2. Proper disposition of infectious materials shall be observed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 42 HOUSEKEEPING AND PHYSICAL PLANT MAINTENANCE 
 
Rule 1.42.1 Housekeeping Facilities and Services 
 
1. The physical plant shall be kept in good repair, neat and attractive.  The safety 
and comfort of the patient shall be the first consideration. 
 
<<<PAGE 67>>>
67  
2. Janitor closets shall be provided with a mop-cleaning sink and be large enough in 
area to store cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor closet area and 
equipment shall be  provided for the food service area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.42.2 Bathtubs, Showers, and Lavatories – Bathtubs, showers, and lavatories shall be 
kept clean and in proper working order.  They shall not be used for laundering or 
for storage of soiled materials. Neither shall these facilities be used for cleaning 
mops, brooms, etc. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.42.3 Patient Bedrooms – Patient bedrooms shall be cleaned and dusted as often as 
necessary to maintain a clean, attractive appearance. All sweeping should be 
damp sweeping.  All dusting should be damp dusting with a good germicide or 
detergent-germicide. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.42.4 Storage 
 
1. Such items as beds, mattresses, mops, mop buckets, dust rags, etc. shall not be 
kept in hallways, corners, toilet or bathrooms, clothes closets, or patient 
bedrooms. 
 
2. The use of attics for storage of combustible materials is prohibited. 
 
3. If basements are used for storage, they shall meet acceptable standards for storage 
and for fire safety. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 43 MEDICAL WASTE 
 
Rule 1.43.1 Regulated Medical Waste  - “Infectious Medical Wastes” includes solid or 
liquid wastes which may contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity 
such that exposure to the waste by a susceptible host has been proven to result in 
an infectious disease.  For purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes shall 
be considered to be infectious medical wastes: 
 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who  have Class I and/or II 
diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules and 
regulations governing reportable diseases as defined by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health; 
 
<<<PAGE 68>>>
68  
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biologicals, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
 
 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components; 
 
4. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts, and body fluids that are 
removed during surgery and autopsy; 
 
5. Contaminated carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals that were exposed to 
pathogens in medical research; 
 
6. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken 
glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious agents; 
 
7. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.43.2 Medical Waste – Means all waste generated in direct patient care or in diagnostic 
or research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically repugnant if found in the 
environment 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.43.3 Medical Waste Management Plan – All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan that shall include, but is 
not limited to, the following: 
 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and    
 Medical Waste 
 
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a manner 
and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, does not 
provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and minimizes 
exposure to the public. 
 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point of 
origin in the producing facility. 
 
c. Unless approved by the Mississippi State Department of Health or treated and 
rendered non-infectious, infectious medical waste (except for sharps in approved 
containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing facility for more than seven 
<<<PAGE 69>>>
69  
days above a temperature of 60 C (38 degrees F). Containment of infectious 
medical waste at the  producing facility is permitted at or below a temperature of 
0 degrees C (32 degrees F) for a period of not more than 90 days without 
specific approval of the Department of Health. 
 
 
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separate from other wastes.  
Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious medical waste shall 
be so secured so as to discourage access by unauthorized persons and shall be 
marked with prominent warning signs on, or adjacent to, the exterior of entry 
doors, gates, or lids.  Each container shall be prominently labeled with a sign 
using language to be determined by the Department and legible during daylight 
hours. 
 
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have strength sufficient to preclude 
ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage.  The bags shall be 
securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or liquid waste 
during storage, handling or transport. 
 
f. All sharps shall be contained for disposal in leak proof, rigid, puncture-resistant 
containers which are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of the 
contents. 
 
g. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall be 
of distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infectious waste.  Rigid 
containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled. 
 
h. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical waste 
unless the waste has been rendered non-infectious.  Sharps containers shall not 
be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the institution 
itself and shall not be placed for storage or  transport in a portable or mobile 
trash compactor. 
 
i. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable containers, 
as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling or transport in 
disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums or portable bins.  The containment 
system shall be leak proof, have tight-fitting covers and be kept clean and in 
good repair. 
 
j. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be 
thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a method 
specified by the Mississippi State Department of Health, unless the surfaces of 
the containers have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, 
bags, or other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in E. 
<<<PAGE 70>>>
70  
 
k. Approved methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation 
to remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures: 
 
i. Exposure to hot water at least 180 F for a minimum of 15 seconds. 
 
ii. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with or immersion in one of the 
following for a minimum of 3 minutes: 
 
a. Hypochlorite solution (500 ppm available chlorine). 
 
b. Phenolic solution (500 ppm active agent). 
 
c. Iodoform solution (100 ppm available iodine). 
 
d. Quaternary ammonium solution (400 ppm active agent). 
 
l. Reusable pails, drums or bins used for containment of infectious waste shall not 
be used for containment of waste to be disposed of as non-infectious waste or 
for other purposes except after being decontaminated by procedures as described 
in part (J) of this section. 
 
m. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste. 
 
n. Once treated and rendered non-infectious, previously defined infectious medical 
waste will be classified as medical waste and may be landfilled in an approved 
landfill. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.43.4 Treatment Or Disposal Of Infectious Medical Waste Shall Be by One Of the 
Following Methods: 
 
1. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
 
2. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render the waste non-
infectious.  Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be 
disposable as medical waste.  Operating procedures for steam sterilizers shall 
include, but not be limited to the following: 
 
a. Adoption of standard written operating procedures or each steam sterilizer 
including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of container(s), 
closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, and maximum load 
quantity; 
 
<<<PAGE 71>>>
71  
b. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each complete cycle 
to ensure the attainment of a temperature of 121 C (250 degrees F) for one-half 
hour or longer, depending on quantity and density of the load, in order to 
achieve sterilization of the entire load.  Thermometers shall be checked for 
calibration at least annually; 
 
c. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each  container that is processed to 
indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions; 
 
d. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the center 
of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least monthly to 
confirm the attainment of adequate  sterilization conditions; 
 
e. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in  (a), (b), (c) and (d) above for 
period of not less than a year; 
 
f. By discharge to the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
3. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be disposed of by incineration or 
internment, unless burial at an approved landfill is specifically authorized by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
4. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized by the 
U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and Toxic 
Substances. 
 
5. Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide are examples of sterilants 
that, used in accordance with manufacturer recommendation, will render 
infectious waste non-infectious.  Testing with Bacillus Subtilis Spores or other 
equivalent organisms shall be conducted quarterly to ensure the sterilization 
effectiveness of gas or steam treatment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.43.5 Treatment and Disposal of Medical Waste Which Is Not Infectious Shall be 
By One Of The Following: 
 
1. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to a carbonized or mineralized ash; or 
 
2. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal facility or 
part of a facility where medical waste is placed in or on land and which is not a 
treatment facility.  All the requirements of these standards shall apply, without 
regard to the quantity of medical waste generated per month, to any generator of 
medical waste. 
 
<<<PAGE 72>>>
72  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 44 LAUNDRY- INPATIENT FACILITY 
 
Rule 1.44.1 Direction and Supervision   Responsibility for laundry services shall be 
delegated to a competent employee. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 45 PHYSICAL FACILITY 
 
Rule 1.45.1 Location and Space Requirements   Each inpatient hospice shall have laundry 
facilities unless commercial laundries are used.  The laundry shall be located in 
specifically designated areas and there shall be adequate room and space for 
sorting, processing and storage of soiled material. There should be a separate 
storage area for provided for soiled linens apart from the clean linens laundry. 
Laundry rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall not open directly into a patient 
bedroom or food service area.  Soiled materials shall not be transported through 
the food service area.  If commercial laundry is used, separate satisfactory storage 
areas shall be provided for clean and soiled linens. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.45.2 Ventilation – Provisions shall be made to prevent the recirculation of air through 
the heating and air condition systems. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.45.3 Lint Traps – Lint traps in driers shall be maintained free of lint and debris, 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.45.4 Laundry Chutes – When laundry chutes are provided they shall have a minimum 
diameter of two (2) feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent and 
drain. 
 
1. An automatic sprinkler shall be provided at the top of the laundry chute and in 
any receiving room for a chute. 
 
2. A self-closing door shall be provided at the bottom of the chute. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.45.5  Laundry Equipment –Laundry equipment shall be of the type to  adequately 
perform the laundry needs of the facility. The equipment shall be installed to 
comply with all local and state codes.     
 
<<<PAGE 73>>>
73  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 46 PHYSICAL FACILITIES:  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION  
ELEMENTS 
 
Rule 1.46.1 General. Every institution subject to these Minimum Standards shall be housed in 
a safe building which contains all the facilities required to render the services 
contemplated in the application for license.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.2 Codes. The term “safe” as used in Section Rule 1.46.1 hereof shall be interpreted 
in the light of compliance with the requirements of the codes recognized by this 
agency on date of construction which are incorporated by reference as a part of 
these Minimum Standards; included are the Life Safety Code of the National Fire 
Protection Association, American National Standards Institute, Standards Number 
A-17.1, and A-17.3, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, the American 
Institute of Architects (AIA), Guidelines for Design and Construction of Hospital 
and Health Care Facilities, and references incorporated as body of all afore 
mentioned standards. Life Safety Code compliance relative to construction date:  
 
1. Buildings constructed after October 17, 2007 shall comply with the edition of the 
Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) recognized by this agency on the date of 
construction.  
 
2. Building constructed prior to October 17, 2007 shall comply with existing chapter 
of the Life Safety Code recognized by this agency.  
 
3. For minimum standards governing Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning 
(HVAC), area design, space allocation, parking  requirements, and other 
considerations not specifically addressed by local authority or standards 
referenced herein, compliance with the AIA guidelines will be deemed 
acceptable.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.46.3 Location – All inpatient hospices established or constructed after the adoption of 
these regulations shall be located in an area free from undue noise, smoke, dust, 
or foul odors and shall not be located adjacent to disposal plants, cemeteries, etc. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.46.4 Site – The proposed site for an inpatient hospice must be approved by the 
Department of Health.  Prior to construction/renovation, all proposed plans and 
sites must be submitted and approved by the Mississippi State Department of 
Health, Fire Safety and Construction Branch.  Factors to be considered in 
approving a site may be convenience to medical and hospital services, approved 
<<<PAGE 74>>>
74  
water supply and sewerage disposal, community services, services of a fire 
department, and availability to labor supply.  Not more than 50% of a site shall be 
covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the Department of Health.  
One example whereby approval may be granted is where the structure is to be 
placed in a very desirable location where the grounds are limited and very 
expensive.  Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have 
a living room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate 
for lack of required outside area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.5 Local Restrictions – The site and structure of all facilities shall comply with 
local building, fire and zoning ordinances.  Evidence to this effect signed by local 
building, fire, and zoning officials shall be presented, where applicable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.6 Transportation – Facilities shall be located on streets or roads which are 
passable at all times.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities, when applicable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.7 Communication – There shall be at least  one electrically interconnected 
hardwire telephone in the facility and such additional telephones as are necessary 
to summon help in the event of  a fire or other emergency.  The telephone shall be 
listed under the official licensed name or title of the facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.8 Occupancy – No part of the facility may be rented, leased, or used for any 
commercial purpose not related to the operation of the facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.9 Basement -No patient or resident shall be housed on any floor that is below 
ground level at any point. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.46.10 Call System – Some type of signal for summoning aid shall be conveniently 
provided for each patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 47 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
 
<<<PAGE 75>>>
75  
Rule 1.47.1 One-Story Building Non-Combustible Construction 
 
1. One-hour fire resistive rating generally.  After adoption of these regulations, one-
story buildings shall be of at least one-hour fire resistive rating throughout except 
as provided in subparagraph of this section (“hazardous areas and combustible 
storage”). 
 
2. Hazardous areas and combustible storage.  All areas used for storage of 
combustible materials shall be classified as hazardous areas and shall be separated 
from other areas by construction having a fire resistive rating of at least two (2) 
hours. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.2 Multi-Story Building 
 
1. Fire resistive construction.  After adoption of these regulations all institutions for 
the aged or infirm containing two (2) or more stories shall be of at least one-hour 
fire resistive construction throughout except as provided in 140.1 (2). 
 
2. Elevator required.  No patient shall be housed above the first floor unless the 
building is equipped with an elevator.  The minimum cab size of the elevator shall 
be approximately five (5) feet four (4) inches by eight (8) feet no (0) inches and 
constructed of metal.  The width of the shaft door shall be at least three (3) feet 
ten (10) inches.  The load weight capacity shall be at least two thousand five 
hundred (2,500) pounds.  The elevator shaft shall be enclosed in fire resistant 
construction of not less than two-hour fire resistive rating.  Elevators shall not be 
counted as required exits.  Elevators are subject to the requirements of the 
referenced standard listed in paragraph 139.2 of this chapter. Exceptions to sub-
paragraphs 1 and 2 may be granted to existing facilities at the discretion of the 
licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.3 Building Codes – All construction shall be in accordance with applicable local 
building codes and regulations and with these regulations.   
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.4 Structural Soundness and Repair; Fire Resistive Rating – The building shall 
be structurally sound, free from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and 
painted at sufficient intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out.  One-
story structures shall have a one-hour fire resistance rating except that walls and 
ceilings of high fire hazard areas shall be of two-hour fire resistance rating in 
accordance with NFPA #220.  Multi-storied buildings shall be of fire resistive 
materials. 
 
<<<PAGE 76>>>
76  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.5 Temperature – Adequate heating and cooling shall be provided in all rooms used 
by patients so that a minimum temperature of seventy-five (75 degrees) to eighty 
(80 degrees) Fahrenheit may be maintained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.6  Lighting – Each patient’s room shall have artificial light adequate for reading 
and other uses as needed. All entrances, corridors, stairways, ramps, cellars, attics, 
storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and service units shall have sufficient artificial 
lighting to prevent accidents and promote efficiency of service.  Night lights shall 
be provided in all corridors, stairways, toilets, and bathing rooms. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.7 Emergency power / Lighting – To  provide electricity during an interruption of 
the normal electric supply that could affect the medical care, treatment and safety 
of the occupants, an emergency source of electricity shall be provided and 
connected to certain circuits for lighting and power. The source of the emergency 
electric service shall be an emergency generator, with a stand-by supply of fuel 
for 24 hours.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.8 Screens – All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with 
tight fitting, full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out 
and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.9 Floors – All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks and be 
finished so that they can be easily cleaned.  Floors in corridors, patient bedrooms, 
toilets, bathing rooms, kitchens, utility rooms, and other areas where frequent 
cleaning is necessary should be covered wall-to-wall with inlaid linoleum, 
resilient tile, hard tile, or the equivalent. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.10 Walls and Ceilings –All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction with an 
acceptable surface and shall be maintained in good repair. Generally the walls and 
ceilings should be painted a light color. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.11 Ceiling Height – All ceilings shall have a height of at least eight (8) feet except 
that a height of seven (7) feet six (6) inches may be approved for corridors or 
<<<PAGE 77>>>
77  
toilets and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed.  Exception may 
be made for existing facilities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.12 Handrails – Handrails shall be installed on both sides of all corridors and 
hallways used by patients.  The handrails should be  installed from thirty-two (32) 
inches to thirty-six (36) inches above the floor.  The handrails should have a 
return to the wall at each rail ending. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.13 Ramps and Inclines – Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of 
patients, shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in ten (10) feet of run, shall be 
furnished with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both 
sides. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.14 Stairways -   Stairways shall have a minimum width of forty-four (44) inches 
with risers not to exceed seven and three-fourths (7¾) inches and treads not less 
than nine (9) inches. Treads shall be of uniform width and risers of uniform height 
in any one flight of stairs.  All stairways and stairway landings shall be equipped 
with handrails on both sides. 
 
1. A landing with width not less than the width of the stairs shall be provided at the 
top and bottom of each flight of stairs. 
 
2. Winding stairways or triangular treads are prohibited. 
 
3. Stairways shall be enclosed with noncombustible materials of at least two-hour 
fire resistance rating. 
 
4. Openings to stairways shall be equipped with doors with self-closing devices. 
 
 
5. Doors to stairways shall open in the direction of exit travel and be equipped with 
a vision window of wired glass.  The doors shall open on a landing of the same 
width as the stair width. 
 
6. Stairways shall be individually enclosed and separated from any public hall. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.15 Corridors and Passageways 
 
<<<PAGE 78>>>
78  
1. Corridors in patient areas shall be not less than eight (8) feet wide.  Exception 
may be granted to existing structures where it is structurally or feasibly 
impossible to comply. 
 
2. Exit Passageways other than corridors in patient areas shall be not less than four 
(4) feet wide between handrails. 
 
 
3. Corridors and passageways shall be kept unobstructed. 
 
4. Corridors and passageways which lead to the outside from any required stairway 
shall be enclosed as required for stairways. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.16 Doors General 
 
1. All stairway doors; doors providing egress from corridors (other than to the 
exterior) and all doors to shafts, utility closets, boiler and incinerator rooms, in 
fire walls, and other spaces which are a possible source of fire shall be equal to 
Underwriters’ Laboratories “Class B-1 ½ hour” self-closing doors. 
 
2. All corridor doors except doors to janitor closets, toilets, and bathrooms shall be 
20 minute rated fire doors or solid wooden doors of the flush type of nominal 
thickness of at least one and three-fourths (1 3/4 inches) 
 
3. Bedroom, patient bath, and toilet doors shall not be equipped with hardware that 
will allow a patient to lock himself within the room. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.17 Exit Doors – Exit doors shall meet the following: 
 
1. They shall be of a fire resistive rating equal to the stairway or passage. 
 
2. Doors leading to stairways shall be not less than forty-four (44) inches wide. 
 
3. Doors to the exterior shall be not less than forty-four (44) inches wide except 
where the capacity of a first floor exceeds sixty (60) persons or a floor above the 
first floor exceeds thirty (30) persons in which case wider doors maybe required. 
 
4. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct the travel 
along any required exit. 
 
5. Revolving doors shall not be used as required exits. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 79>>>
79  
Rule 1.47.18 Door Widths – All exit doors shall be a minimum of forty-four (44) inches wide 
and open outward.  Doors to patient bedrooms shall be a minimum of forty-four 
(44) inches wide.  All other doors through which patients must pass (doors to 
living and day rooms, dining rooms, recreational areas, toilet and bathrooms, 
physical and occupational therapy rooms, etc.) shall be a minimum of thirty-six 
(36) inches wide.  Doors to patient closets shall be not less than twenty (20) 
inches wide.  Exception may be granted to existing facilities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.19 Door Swing 
 
1. Exit doors, other than from a living unit, shall swing in the direction of exit from 
the structure. 
 
2. Patient bedroom doors.  Patient bedroom doors opening from a corridor shall 
open to the inside of the room. 
 
3. Toilet or bathroom doors.  Doors to toilet and bathrooms accessible from the 
patient’s bedroom shall open into the room.  Doors to toilet or bathroom 
accessible from a corridor shall open into the toilet or bathroom. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.20 Floor levels – All differences in floor levels within the building shall be 
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) six-inch risers, ramps, or inclines; 
and they shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.21 Space Under Stairs – Space under stairs shall not be used for storage purposes.  
All walls and doors shall meet the same fire  rating as the stairwell. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.22 Interior Finish and Decorative Materials – All combustible, decorative, and 
acoustical material shall be rendered and maintained flame resistant.  It is 
recommended that curtains be of fiberglass or other flame resistant material. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.23 Fire Extinguishers- Fire extinguishers of number, type, and capacity appropriate 
to the need shall be provided for each floor and for special fire hazard areas such 
as kitchen, laundry, and mechanical room.  All extinguishers shall be of a type 
approved by the licensing authority of the Department of Health.  A vaporizing 
liquid extinguisher (such as carbon tetrachloride) will not be approved for use 
inside the building.  Extinguishers shall be inspected and serviced periodically as 
<<<PAGE 80>>>
80  
recommended by the manufacturer.  The date of inspection shall be entered on a 
tag attached to the extinguisher and signed by a reliable inspector such as the local 
fire chief or representative of a fire extinguisher servicing company. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.24 Fire Detection and Fire Protection System 
 
1. If an automatic sprinkler-alarm system is installed, it shall meet the requirements 
as a recommended by the National Fire Protection Association according to 
NFPA, No. 13. 
 
2. If an automatic fire detection system is installed, it shall meet the following 
requirements: 
 
3. It shall be an Underwriters’ Laboratories approved system. 
 
4. A smoke detector unit shall be installed upon the ceiling or on the side walls near 
the ceiling throughout all parts of the premises including all rooms, halls, storage 
areas, basements, attics, and lofts and inside all closets, elevator shafts, enclosed 
stairways and dumbwaiter shafts, chutes, and other enclosures. 
 
5. The system shall be electrically supervised so that the occurrence of a break or a 
ground fault of its installation writing circuits, which present the required 
operation of system or failure of its main power supply source, will be indicated 
by a distinctive trouble signal. 
 
6. The conductors of the signaling system power supply circuit shall be connected 
on the line side of the main service of a commercial light or power supply circuit.  
A circuit disconnecting means shall be so installed that it will be accessible only 
by authorized personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.25 Smoke Barrier or Fire Retardant Walls-  Each building shall be divided into 
areas not exceeding five thousand (5,000) square feet between exterior walls or 
smoke barrier walls.  The barrier walls shall be constructed from floor to roof 
decking with no openings except in corridors or other areas specifically approved 
by the licensing agency.  Self-closing “B” label fire doors with fusible linkage 
shall be installed in the barrier walls in corridors.  All air spaces in the walls shall 
be filled with noncombustible material. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.26 Exit Signs – Exits shall be marked with plainly lettered illuminated signs bearing 
the word “Exit” or “Fire Escape” in letters at least four and one-half (4 ½ ) inches 
high.  Exit signs shall be illuminated at all times and wired in front of the 
<<<PAGE 81>>>
81  
electrical panel with fuse control in a locked box.  Additional signs shall be 
placed in corridors and passageways wherever necessary to indicate the direction 
of exit. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.27 Fire Escapes and Ladders  
 
1. The use of ladders (metal or otherwise) in lieu of escapes or fire stairways shall 
not be permitted on any facility licensed under these regulations. 
 
2. The use of open fire escapes shall not be permitted on facilities opened or 
established after the effective date of these regulations. 
 
3. Open fire escapes will be permitted on existing institutions provided such fire 
escapes meet the following requirements: 
 
a. They must be of non-combustible material. 
 
b. They must have railing or guard at least four (4) feet high on each unenclosed 
side. 
 
c. Wall openings adjacent to fire escapes shall be protected with fire resistive doors 
and windows. 
 
d. Doors leading to fire escapes shall open in the direction of exit. 
 
e. Fire escapes on facilities licensed after adoption of these regulations should 
generally meet requirements for stairways. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.28 Required Fire Exits 
 
1. At least two (2) exits, remote from each other, shall be provided for each occupied 
story of the building.  Dead-end corridors are undesirable and in no even shall 
exceed thirty (30) feet. 
 
2. Exits shall be of such number and so located that the distance of travel from the 
door of any occupied room to an exit from that floor shall not exceed one hundred 
(100) feet.  In buildings completely protected by a standard automatic sprinkler 
system, the distance may be one hundred fifty (150) feet. 
 
3. Each occupied room shall have at least one (1) door opening directly to the 
outside or to a corridor, stairway, or ramp leading directly to the outside. 
 
4. Doors on fire exits shall open to the outside. 
<<<PAGE 82>>>
82  
 
5. Building Exits Code, NFPA, No. 101, shall be the governing code for exit items 
which are not covered in the regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.47.29 Mechanical and Electrical Systems-  Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, 
air-conditioning, and water systems installed shall meet the requirements of local 
codes and ordinances as well as the applicable regulation of the Department of 
Health.  Where there are no local codes or ordinances, the following codes and 
recommendations shall govern: 
 
1. National Electrical Code. 
 
2. National Plumbing Code. 
 
3. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc. 
 
4. Recommendations of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
 
5. Recommendations of American Gas Association. 
 
6. National Board of Fire Underwriters. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.47.30 The heating of institutions for the aged or infirm licensed after adoption of these 
regulations shall be restricted to steam, hot water, or warm air systems employing 
central heating plants or Underwriters’ Laboratories approved electric heating.  
The use of portable heaters of any kind is prohibited with the following 
exceptions for existing homes:  
 
1. Portable type gas heaters provided they meet all the following: 
 
a. A circulating type with a recessed enclosed flame so designed that clothing or 
other  flammable material cannot be ignited; 
 
b. Equipped with a safety pilot light; 
 
c. Properly vented to the outside; 
 
d. Approved by American Gas Association or Underwriters’ Laboratories. 
 
e. An approved type of electrical heater such as wall insert type.  
 
<<<PAGE 83>>>
83  
f. Lighting (except for emergency lighting) shall be restricted to electricity.  No 
open  flame lighting such as by kerosene lamps, gas lamps, or candles shall be 
permitted. 
 
g. The Department of Health may require, at its discretion, inspection of 
mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems installed prior to effective date of 
these regulations by  building, electrical plumbing officials or other competent 
authorities, a certification of adequacy and safety presented to the Department of 
Health.     
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 48 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)  
 
Rule 1.48.1 The licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan 
utilizing the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The 
plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of terrorism or 
man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. 
The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by the 
Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department 
of Health, or their designates, for conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specified 
EOP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications – Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP. 
 
2. Resources and Assets 
3. Safety and Security 
4. Staffing 
5. Utilities  
6. Clinical Activities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.48.2 Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or 
as directed by the Emergency Preparedness and Response. Written evidence of 
current approval or review of  provider EOPs, by the Office of Emergency 
<<<PAGE 84>>>
84  
Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all applications for facility license 
renewals. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 49 FACILITY FIRE PREPAREDNESS    
 
Rule 1.49.1 Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.49.2 Written Records.  Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.49.3 A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a conspicuous place and 
kept current. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Subchapter 50 NURSING UNIT 
 
Rule 1.50.1 Nursing Unit – Medical, nursing, and personal services shall be provided in a 
specifically designated area which shall include bedrooms, special care room(s), 
nurses’ station, utility room toilet and bathing facilities, linen and storage closets 
and wheelchair space. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.50.2 The maximum nursing unit shall be twenty-five (25) beds. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.50.3 Bedrooms Location 
 
1. All patient bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be below grade.  
Window area shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the floor area.  The 
window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches from the floor. 
 
2. Patient bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of unpleasant 
odors, excessive noise and other nuisances. 
 
3. Patient bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor of the 
nursing unit providing that accessibility from any public space other than the 
<<<PAGE 85>>>
85  
dining room will be acceptable.  In no case shall a patient bedroom be used for 
access to another patient bedroom. 
 
4. All patient bedrooms shall be so located that the patient can travel from his/her 
bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or toilet or bathing facility 
without having to go through another patient bedroom. 
 
a. Floor Area – Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be as follows: 
 
i. Private room  100 square feet 
 
ii. Multi-bed room  80 square feet 
 
b. Provision for Privacy – Cubicle curtains, screens or other suitable provisions for 
privacy shall be provided in multi-bed patient bedrooms. 
 
c. Accommodations for Patients – The minimum accommodations for each patient 
shall include: 
 
i. Bed – The patient shall be provided with either an adjustable bed or a regular 
single bed, according to needs of the patient, with a good grade mattress 
atleast four (4) inches thick. Beds shall be single except in case of special 
approval of the licensing agency.  Cots and roll-away beds are prohibited for 
patient use.  Full and half bedrails shall be available to assist in safe care of 
patients. 
 
ii. Pillows, linens, and necessary coverings. 
 
iii. Chair. 
 
iv. Bedside cabinet or table. 
 
v. Storage space for clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings including 
rod for clothes hanging. 
 
vi. Means at bedside for signaling attendants. 
 
vii. Bed pan and urinal for patients who need them. 
 
viii. Over-bed tables as required. 
 
d. Bed Maximum – Effective from the approval date of these regulations, each 
newly renovated or newly constructed hospice facility shall contain only private 
patient rooms. There shall be no multi-patient wards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
<<<PAGE 86>>>
86  
Rule 1.50.4 Isolation Room – Each hospice facility shall have one isolation room which shall 
be a single bedroom with at least a private half bath (lavatory and water closet).   
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Rule 1.50.5 Nurses’ Station - Each inpatient hospice shall have a nurses’ station for each 
 nursing unit. The nurses’ station shall include as a minimum the following: 
 
a. Annunciator board or other equipment for patient’s call; 
 
b. The minimum areas of the medicine storage/preparation room shall be seventy-
five (75) feet; 
 
c. Storage space for patients’ medical records and nurses’ charts. 
 
d. Lavatory or sink with disposable towel dispenser; 
 
e. Desk or counter top space adequate for recording and charting purposes by 
physicians and nurses. 
 
f. The nurses’ station area shall be well-lighted. 
 
g. It is recommended that nurses’ lounge with toilet be provided for nursing 
personnel adjacent to the station.  A refrigerator for the storage of drugs shall be 
provided at each nurses’ station.  Drugs, food and beverages may be stored 
together only if separate compartments or containers are provided for the storage 
of drugs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.50.6 Utility Room – Each inpatient hospice shall provide a separate utility room for 
soiled and clean patient care equipment such as bedpans, urinals, et cetera.  The 
soiled utility room shall contain, as a minimum, the following equipment: 
 
1. Provision for cleaning utensils such as bed pans, urinal,et cetera; 
 
2. Utensil sterilizer; 
 
 
3. Lavatory or sink and disposable towel dispenser; 
 
4. The utility room for clean equipment shall have suitable storage. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.50.7 Toilet and Bathing Facilities - Separate toilet and bathing facilities shall be 
provided on each floor for each sex in the following ratios as a minimum: 
<<<PAGE 87>>>
87  
 
a. Bathtubs or showers1 per 12 beds or fraction thereof Lavatories1 per 8 beds or 
fraction thereof 
 
b. Toilets1 per 8 beds or fraction thereof 
 
c. As a minimum, showers shall be four (4) feet by four (4) feet without curbing. 
 
d. Handrails shall be provided for all tubs, showers, and commodes. 
 
e. A lavatory shall be provided in each patient bedroom or in a toilet room that is 
directly accessible from the bedroom. 
 
f. A water closet shall be located in a room directly accessible from each patient 
bedroom.  The minimum area for a room containing only a water closet shall be 
three (3) feet by six (6) feet. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.50.8 Other Rooms and Areas – In addition to the above facilities, each nursing unit 
shall include the following rooms and areas:  linen closet, storage closet and 
wheelchair space. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Rule 1.50.9 Required Rooms and Areas 
 
1. Clean linen storage – Adequate area shall be provided for storing clean linens 
which shall be separate from dirty linen storage. 
 
2. Wheelchair area – Adequate area shall be provided for storage of wheelchairs. 
 
3. Dining Room – The dining area shall be large enough to accommodate needs of 
the hospice patients/families. 
 
4. Food Storage – A food storage room shall be provided convenient to the kitchen 
in all future licensed homes.  It should have cross ventilation.  All foods must be 
stored a minimum of twelve (12) inches above the floor. 
 
5. Day Room or Living Room – Adequate day or living room area shall be provided 
for patients or residents and guests.  These areas shall be designated exclusively 
for this purpose and shall not be used as sleeping area or otherwise.  It is 
recommended that at least two (2) such areas be provided and more in larger 
facilities. 
 
<<<PAGE 88>>>
88  
6. Counseling Room- The hospice shall provide a defined quiet room or place that 
will accommodate families and where consoling and/or counseling can be offered.  
 
7. Janitor Closet – At least one (1) janitor’s closet shall be provided for each floor.  
The closet shall be equipped with a mop sink and be adequate in area to store 
cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor’s closet shall be provided for 
the food service area. 
 
8. Garbage – Garbage can cleaning and storage area. 
 
9. General Storage – A minimum area equal to at least (5) square feet per bed shall 
be provided for general storage. 
 
10. Laundry – If laundry is done in the institution, a laundry room shall be provided.  
The laundry shall be enclosed by two-hour fire resistive construction.  Adequate 
equipment for the laundry load of the home shall be installed.  The sorting, 
washing, and extracting process should be separated from the folding and ironing 
area – preferably in separate rooms. 
 
11. A separate toilet room (lavatory and water closet) with lockers shall be provided 
for male and female employees. 
 
 
12. A separate toilet room shall be provided for each sex of the public. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
Subchapter 51 CONCLUSION:  GENERAL 
 
Rule 1.51.1 Conditions which have not been covered in the Standards shall be enforced in 
accordance with the best practices as interpreted by the Licensing Agency.  The 
Licensing Agency reserves the right to: 
 
1. Visit hospice patients in their place of residence in order to evaluate the quality of 
care provided. 
 
2. Review the payroll records of each hospice agency for the purpose of verifying 
staffing patterns. 
 
3. Information obtained by the licensing agency through filed reports, inspection, or 
as otherwise authorized, shall not be disclosed publicly in such manner as to 
identify individuals or institutions, except in proceedings involving the question 
of licensure. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
 
<<<PAGE 89>>>
89  
Rule 1.51.2 VARIANCES AND WAIVERS 
 
1. The Department, upon application, may grant variances or waivers of specific 
rules and regulations when it has been shown that the rule or regulation is not 
applicable or to allow experimentation and demonstration of new and innovative 
approaches to delivery of services. 
 
2. The Department may exempt classes of facilities from regulation, as provided, 
when regulation would not permit the purpose intended or the class of facilities is 
subject to similar requirements under other rules and regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-85-7 
Chapter 2 Minimum Standards of Operation of Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care     
(PPEC) Centers  
Subchapter 1  General:  Legal Authority 
 
Rule 2.1.1 Authority.  By virtue of authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated, 
§41-125-1 through §41-125-23, or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi State 
Department of Health (MSDH, otherwise known as the licensing agency), has the 
authority and powers, as necessary, to promulgate and adopt the following rules, 
regulations and standards governing Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care (PPEC) 
centers and to license and regulate said centers in the State of Mississippi. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.1.2 Procedures Governing Amendments.  The rules, regulations and minimum 
standards for Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care centers may be amended by the 
licensing agency from time to time as necessary to promote the health, safety and 
welfare of the children being served and to assure that centers provide the 
necessary family-centered medical, developmental, psychological, nutritional, 
psychological and family training services. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.1.3 Inspections Required.  No PPEC center shall operate without a license. No 
PPEC center shall be licensed without being inspected and having achieved 
compliance with the rules, regulations and standards as set forth in this chapter.  
Each PPEC center for which a license has been issued shall be inspected by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health or by persons delegated with authority by 
said Mississippi State Department of Health at such interval that the Department 
may direct. Mississippi State Department of Health and/or its authorized 
representatives shall have the right to inspect construction work in progress.   The 
PPEC center  shall provide Mississippi State Department of Health unrestricted 
access to the center, children and clinical/medical records as necessary to verify 
compliance with said rules and regulations. 
<<<PAGE 90>>>
90  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 2  Definitions 
 
Rule 2.2.1 A listing of terms often used in connection with the rules and regulations and 
standards follows: 
 
1. Administrator.  For the purpose of this chapter, the PPEC Administrator shall 
mean an individual who is responsible and accountable for the implementation 
and supervision of all administrative and clinical policies as well as overall 
operations and management of the PPEC center. 
 
2. Basic Services.  Include, but are not limited to development, implementation 
and monitoring of a comprehensive protocol of care, developed in conjunction 
with the parent or guardian, which specifies the medical, nursing, psychosocial 
and developmental therapies required by the medically dependent or 
technologically dependent child served as well as the caregiver training needs 
of the child’s legal guardian.  
 
3. Child Development Specialist.   Shall mean an individual with a master’s 
degree in child development or a related field with at least one year of 
experience in trans-disciplinary evaluation and treatment planning for children 
who are at risk of experiencing developmental delay.  
 
4. Child Life Specialist.  Shall mean an individual with a baccalaureate 
degree in child life, early childhood education or a related field and at least one 
year of experience in planning and implementing developmental stimulation 
programs for children. 
 
5. Criminal History Record Check.  For purposes of the requirement for a 
criminal history record check: 
 
a.  Employee -For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background 
history checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a 
covered entity. The term “employee” also includes any individual who by 
contract with a covered entity provides patient care in a patient’s, 
resident’s, or client’s room or in treatment rooms provides direct 
care/services for clients currently enrolled in the PPEC Center.  
 
b.  The term employee does not include healthcare professional/ technical 
students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a 
licensed entity under contracts between their schools and the licensed entity, 
and does not include students at high schools who observe the treatment and 
care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the requirements of an allied 
health course taught in the school if:  
<<<PAGE 91>>>
91  
 
i.  The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; 
and  
 
ii.  The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school 
stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo 
contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses 
listed in section 45 -33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, 
burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse 
and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea 
was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea.  
 
iii.  Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37 -115-41 are 
exempt from application of the term employee. 
 
c.   Covered Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
“covered entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional 
staffing agency.  
 
d.   Licensed Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the 
term “licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, 
home health agency, hospice or PPEC center.  
 
 e.  Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program - 
For purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care 
professional/vocational technical academic program” means an academic 
program in medicine, nursing , dentistry, occupational therapy, physical 
therapy, social services, speech therapy, or other allied-health professional 
whose purpose is to prepare professionals to render patient care services.  
 
f.  Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student - For purposes 
of criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a 
healthcare professional/vocational technical academic program.  
 
g. Direct Patient Care or Services - For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means 
direct hands-on medical patient care and services provided by an individual 
in a patient, resident or client’s room, treatment room, recovery room or 
PPEC center. Individuals providing direct patient care may be directly 
employed by the facility or provides patient care on a contractual basis.  
 
<<<PAGE 92>>>
92  
h.  Documented Disciplinary Action - For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary 
action” means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of 
a patient.  
 
6. Direct Care Staff.  For the purposes of this chapter, direct care staff shall 
include certified nursing assistants, patient care technicians, medical assistants, 
emergency medical technician (EMT), play assistants or any individual with 
training and experience in child care related fields.  
 
7. Functional Assessment.  Refers to an evaluation of the child’s abilities and 
needs related to self -care, communication skills, social skills, motor skills, 
academic areas, play with toys or objects, growth and development appropriate 
for age.  
 
8. License.  Shall mean the document issued by the Mississippi State Department 
of Health and signed by the State Health Officer. Licensure shall constitute 
authority to receive patients and perform the services included within the scope 
of these rules, regulations and standards. A license shall be issued only for the 
location as addressed on the license and is not transferable. 
 
9. Licensee.  Shall mean the individual, firm, association, partnership or 
corporation to whom the license is issued and upon whom rests the 
responsibility for the operation and all aspects of administrative/regulatory 
compliance of the PPEC center. 
 
10. Licensing Agency.   Shall mean Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
11. Medical Director.  Shall mean a physician, licensed to practice in the State of 
Mississippi, board certified by the American Board of Pediatrics or the 
American Osteopathic Board of Pediatrics, who serves as a liaison between the 
PPEC center and the medical community. 
 
12. Medical Records.  Shall mean medical records maintained in accordance with 
acceptable standards and practices as specified by the rules implementing this 
act. 
 
13. Medically Dependent or Technologically Dependent Child .  Shall mean a 
child, from birth up to 21 years of age who because of a medical 
condition/disability whether acute, chronic or intermittent in nature requires on-
going physician prescribed, technologically -based skilled nursing supervision 
and/or requires the routine use of a medical device to compensate for  the deficit 
of life-sustaining body function. 
 
14. Nursing Director.  Shall mean a licensed registered nurse, licensed in 
accordance with the Mississippi Nurse Practice Act, who maintains 
<<<PAGE 93>>>
93  
responsibility for providing continuous supervision of the PPEC services and 
manages the day-to-day operations of the PPEC center.  
 
15. Owner or Operator. Shall mean a licensee. 
 
16. Physical Therapist. Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter, an individual, 
licensed in the State of Mississippi, who has at least one year’s experience in 
evaluating and designing therapeutic programs for children with developmental 
disabilities.  
 
17. Premises. Shall mean those buildings, beds, facilities and fenced outdoor 
recreational/play area located at the main address of the licensee.  
 
18. Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care Center or PPEC Center.   Shall mean 
any building or buildings, or other place, whether operated for profit or not, 
which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide basic 
nonresidential services to three (3) or more medically dependent or 
technologically dependent children who are not related to the owner or operator 
by blood, marriage or adoption and who require such services. Infants and 
children considered for admission to a PPEC center must have complex medical 
conditions that require continual care. Prerequisites for admission are a 
prescription from the child’s physician and consent from a parent or guardian.  
 
Exemption: A facility, institution or other place operated by the federal 
government or an agency of the federal government is exempt from the 
provisions of this chapter. 
  
19. Prescribing Physician. Shall mean the physician, licensed to practice medicine 
in the State of Mississippi that signs the order admitting the child to the PPEC 
center. 
 
20. Primary or Subspecialist Physician.   Shall mean the physician, licensed to 
practice medicine in the State of Mississippi, who maintains overall 
responsibility for the medical management of the child and who is available for 
consultation and collaboration with the PPEC center staff.  
 
21. Protocol of Care.   The comprehensive plan for implementation of medical,   
nursing, psychosocial, developmental, and education therapies to be provided 
by the PPEC center. 
 
22. Psychiatrist.  Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter, a board -certified 
psychiatrist, licensed to practice in the State of Mississippi and who has at least 
two years of experience in child psychology. 
 
23. Psychologist.  Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter, a licensed individual in 
Mississippi with doctorial; preparation in child or developmental counseling 
<<<PAGE 94>>>
94  
psychology, or a related field , and at least two years current experience in 
evaluation and management of children.  
 
24. Quality Assurance (QA) Committee .  A group of individuals, including the 
PPEC center Medical Director, Administrator, Director of Nursing, two other 
healthcare members and at least one consumer member with an interest in PPEC 
services who functions to conduct the duties, as outlined in S ubchapter 18 of 
this chapter, which includes but is not limited to, review of medical records, 
review and approval of  policies and procedures, treatment plans/procedures 
and to evaluate the quality of care provided to child ren enrolled in the PPEC 
center.  
 
25. Social Worker.   Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter, an individual, 
licensed to practice social work in the State of Mississippi, and who has at least 
one year of experience in assessing, counseling, and planning interventions for 
children and their families or guardians. 
 
26. Speech Pathologist.  Shall mean, for purposes of this chapter,  an individual 
who attained a master’s degree in speech -language pathology from an 
educational institution accredited by the American Speech -Language, Hearing 
Association, licensed to practice speech -language pat hology in the State of 
Mississippi, and who has at least one year of experience in evaluating and 
treating children at risk for, or experiencing problems with communication 
skills.  
 
27. Supportive Services or Contracted Services.  Includes but are not limited to 
speech therapy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, respiratory therapy, 
social work, developmental, educational services.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Subchapter 3   Licensing 
 
Rule 2.3.1 Authority.  Except as provided in Mississippi Code §41-125-5, no individual, 
firm, association, partnership or corporation shall either directly or indirectly 
operate a PPEC center in this state without first applying for and receiving a 
license from the Mississippi State Department for Health.  
 
SOURCE:   Mississippi Code of 1972, Section §41-125-5 
 
Rule 2.3.2 License. A license, from the Mississippi State Department of Health, is required 
to operate a Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care (PPEC) center prior to said entity  
providing services to three or more medically dependent or technologically 
dependent children who meet the definition of the above definitions unless such 
entity meets the definition/requirement for exemption which reads: 
 
<<<PAGE 95>>>
95  
1. A PPEC center, institution or other place operated by the federal government 
or any agency of the federal government are exempt from the provisions of this 
chapter. 
 
SOURCE:   Mississippi Code of 1972, Section §41-125-5 
 
Rule 2.3.3    Designation of License.  Separate licenses are required for PPEC centers 
maintained on separate premises, even though such centers may be operated under 
the same management. A separate distinct license is required to distinguish 
entities providing twelve (12) hour care services verses twenty-four (24) hour 
services. No PPEC center shall co-locate with another facility licensed by the 
Department. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.4 Rules and Regulations. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or 
corporation operating a PPEC center in this state is subject to the requirements of 
Section §41-125-19 and all requirements as outlined in the Minimum Standards of 
Operation for Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care Centers. The Mississippi State 
Department of Health has legal authority to promulgate rules and regulations.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.5 Application.  Application for a license or renewal shall be made on in writing to 
the licensing agency, on forms provided by the licensing agency, which shall 
contain information that the licensing agency may require. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.6 Fees. 
 
1.  Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked 
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the Board and made payable 
to the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, money 
order, or electronic means.  Fees are non-refundable. 
 
2.  Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a user fee to the licensing 
agency for review of any construction proposal whether modification or new 
construction in a fee amount set by the Board and made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, money order, 
or electronic means.  The fees are non-refundable. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-7 
 
<<<PAGE 96>>>
96  
Rule 2.3.7 Name of Facility.  Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency 
and by which the center is licensed shall be used in telephone listings, on 
stationary, in advertising, etc. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.3.8      Capacity. Licensees shall not operate at any given time with a capacity greater 
than the number of clients on the face of the license. The maximum number of 
beds shall be calculated based on the required staff to child ratio delineated in 
Rule 2.10.1, management team personnel, and additional ancillary 
staffing/support personnel not to exceed the maximum occupancy load of the 
building as defined in Rule 2.20.2. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.9 Initial Licensure. For initial licensure, an applicant shall be in compliance with 
all requirements, as outlined in these regulations, and must submit documents, 
included but not limited to, those outlined: 
 
1. A completed/signed application, on forms as designated by MSDH. All 
information submitted on the application forms, or by request for additional 
information, shall be accurate and current at the time of filing; 
  
2. A non-refundable application/processing fee in an amount set by the Board. The 
fee shall be made payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, either 
by business check, money order, or electronic means. The fee is non-refundable. 
 
3. A licensing fee in an amount set by the Board. The licensing fee shall be made 
payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, 
money order or electronic means. The fee is non- refundable. 
 
4. Certificates/letters of approval from the local zoning authority indicating that 
the location of the PPEC center conforms to local zoning ordinances, if 
applicable; 
 
5. Certificates/letters of approval from the local/regional/state Fire Marshal that 
the PPEC center is in compliance with all applicable fire safety standards; 
  
6. Evidence that the PPEC center’s water and sewer systems have been approved 
by the Mississippi State Department of Health; 
 
7. A licensed facility shall obtain a Food Service Permit from the Mississippi State 
Department of Health Office of Environmental Health. 
 
8. Certificate of Occupancy; 
 
<<<PAGE 97>>>
97  
9. Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certificate or CLIA 
certificate of waiver. 
 
10. Proof of general and Professional Liability Insurance in the amount of at least 
$300,000.00 including Workman’s Compensation Insurance; 
 
11. Articles of Incorporation, Disclosure of Ownership and Control Information; 
 
12. Proof of financial viability/contingency plan demonstrating evidence that the 
applicant processes assets sufficient to establish and sustain all components of 
a PPEC center to meet the provisions as outlined in these regulations while 
operating and/or during extraordinary circumstances including but not limited 
to audited financial statements, an established line of credit issued from a 
federally insured institution in the amount of at least $100,000.00, a projected 
twelve (12) month statement of operations and a projected first twelve months 
statement of cash flow. The requesting PPEC center shall provide evidence of 
the referenced above review in the form of a certified affidavit or statement 
resultant of a review from an independent certified public accountant firm.  
 
13.  That the center is located within 20 miles or 30 minutes (whichever is greater) 
of an Emergency Department that has capabilities to handle pediatric 
emergencies; 
 
14. The name of the PPEC center’s administrator, the name and license number of 
the Medical Director and Director of Nursing along with proof of available 
licensed and supportive personnel who will have responsibility for any part of 
the care given to PPEC cen ter’s clients; as well as proof of ancillary support 
services such as dietary, housekeeping, maintenance and other personnel either 
directly or contractually secured to support the PPEC center on a daily basis;   
 
15. The names and titles of personnel who have been affiliated, during the 
preceding five (5) years with any other PPEC center through ownership or 
employment, and the listing of names and addresses of the appropriate PPEC 
center for each. This information sha ll be provided for the applicant: 
administrator, and all licensed nurses; and 
 
 
 16. Floor sketch or drawing of premises to be licensed, letter of intent and a 
 detailed functional plan which delineates the proposed use of space, that 
 includes but is not limited to the programmatic design outlined in Rule 2.20.2, 
 the purpose of the project, the key elements of the physical environment, 
 functional requirements and other basic information related to the fulfillment 
 of the services required in the Minimum Standards of Operation for a PPEC 
 Center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
<<<PAGE 98>>>
98  
   
Rule 2.3.10 Approval of Building.  Prior to the issuance of a license, the building must be 
inspected/approved by MSDH, Fire and Life Safety Code Division within Health 
Facilities Licensure and Certification and approved as being in compliance with 
all applicable National Fire Protection Association fire safety code standards, as 
appropriate to this type setting.  
 
SOURCE: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Rule 2.3.11 Licensure Term.  Each license issued shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) 
months and shall be issued for the licensure period from January 1, of each year 
and shall expire December 31, of the that same year.  Should an entity be 
approved for licensure after the January 1, date for licensure, the licensure date 
shall reflect the approved date of licensure for this center and will be valid until 
December 31, of that licensure year. As with all other centers, a renewal 
applications/documentation pertinent to renewal (see Rule 2.3.9) must be 
submitted to initiate the licensure process for the next January 1, thru December 
31, licensure year.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.3.12  Posting of License. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by in interested person. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.3.13 License Not Transferable. A PPEC center license is for the stated licensee and 
location as reflected on the license and is not transferable. 
  
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.14 License Renewal.  For renewal, each licensed entity shall submit: 
 
1. A completed and signed renewal application; received on or before 30 days 
prior to the date of expiration;  
 
2. A renewal licensure fee in an amount set by the Board and made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, money order, 
or electronic means.  The fee is non-refundable. 
 
3. In a format as requested by MSDH, information designed to capture the entity’s 
provision of services being provided, to include but not be limited to,  number 
and acuity of infants/children served, number and types of 
treatments/specialized services provid ed, and other information that may be 
useful in determining that services, as outlined in these requirements are 
offered/met; and 
<<<PAGE 99>>>
99  
  
4. Evidence of continued compliance with all building/fire codes as evidence by a 
copy of the annual inspection by the local Fire Marshall of the area/region 
where the center is located; and 
 
5. Proof of General and Professional Liability Insurance in the amount of at least 
$300,000 including Workers Compensation Insurance. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.15 Late Fees. Should all documentation appropriate for license renewal not be 
received by MSDH, Division of Health Facilities Licensure and Certification on 
 or prior to the expiration date of the license, a late fee in an amount set by the 
Board  will be assessed and must be submitted payable by business check,  money 
order, or electronic means to the Mississippi State Department of Health prior to 
the issuance of a license.  Should all paperwork necessary for renewal not be 
submitted within 30 days post-expiration of the license, the center shall be 
considered unlicensed and actions taken, as appropriate, to process termination of 
the license 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.3.16 In the case of a change of ownership or a change in Proprietors that constitutes a 
sale or change of greater that 20% of the assets, the center shall notify the 
Department and submit all Legal documents/information, as requested, to 
document that change of ownership and to confirm/verify the operational 
sustainability of the center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.17     Required Reporting: 
 
1.   Within ten calendar days, the licensed entity shall submit, in writing, to 
MSDH, Division of Licensure and Certification, the following: 
 
a. Change in the administrator, director of nursing services, or the medical 
director; 
 
2.   Within 24 hours of occurrence, the licensed entity shall submit in writing, to 
MSDH, Division of Licensure and Certification the following: 
 
a. Any fire or incident of natural disaster whereas damage to the center was 
sustained; 
 
<<<PAGE 100>>>
100  
b. Any incident whereas a child is left alone and unattended, either during the 
hours of operation of the PPEC center, after hours, while on a field trip or 
at an alternate location; 
 
c. Any accident or injury sustained by a child, while the child was under the 
care of the PPEC center that required emergency medical intervention 
 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.18 Such reports shall contain a clear description of each accident or incident, the 
names of the persons involved, a description of all medical or other services 
provided to those persons, specifying who provided such services, and the steps 
taken, if any, to prevent reoccurrence of such accident or incidents in the future.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.19   All applicants for a license to operate a PPEC center, whether for initial or for 
renewal, the administrator and the director of nursing services shall: 
 
1. Be 21 years of age or older; 
 
2. Be of good moral character; and  
 
3. Have not been convicted or found guilty, regardless of adjudication, in any 
jurisdiction, of any felony involving fraud, embezzlement, fraudulent 
conversion, misappropriation of property, moral turpitude, violence against a 
person or persons, abuse  of a vulnerable adult; or any act(s) of sexual abuse as 
outlined in Section 45-33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.20  As documentation for the Department, regarding the requirement for licensure, 
each applicant(s) for a license to operate a PPEC center, whether for initial or 
renewal, shall submit together, with their application: 
 
1. Two (2) personal character references and two (2) professional character 
references for the administrator, of the PPEC center, except on renewal if 
previously provided to the Department; 
 
2. The criminal record, if any, for the administrator and director of nursing 
services of the PPEC center, to include the court, date of conviction, the offense, 
penalties imposed by each conviction, regardless of adjudication;  
 
<<<PAGE 101>>>
101  
3. Any injunctive or restrictive order or federal or state administrative order 
related to business activity or health care as a result of an action brought by a 
public agency or department; 
 
4. A copy of current agreements entered into with third party providers; and 
 
5. A copy of current agreements with each consultant employed by the center and 
documentation specifying frequency of consultative visits and required written, 
dated reports.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.21   Liability Insurance. Facilities shall obtain and keep in force liability insurance. 
Proof of Professional and General Liability insurance including worker’s 
compensation insurance must be submitted at the time of application. Liability 
insurance must cover legal liability for death, injury, or disability of any human 
being, or for damage of property, with provision for medical, hospital and surgical 
benefits to the injured person, irrespective of the legal disability of the insured, 
when issued as a part of the liability insurance contract.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.3.22    Denial, Suspension, Revocation of Licensure, Administrative Fines; Grounds. 
  
1. The licensing agency may deny, revoke, and suspend a license and impose an 
administrative fine as provided in section eight (8) of Section §41 -125-19, 
Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated, for violation of any provision of this act, 
or applicable rules. 
 
2. Any of the following actions by the PPEC center or its employee is grounds for 
action by the licensing agency against the PPEC center or its employee: 
 
a. An intentional or negligent act materially affecting the health and safety of 
children in the PPEC center.   
 
b. A violation of the provisions of the act, or applicable rules. 
 
c. Multiple or repeat violations of this act or of minimum standards or rules 
adopted under this act.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-13 
 
Rule 2.3.23      Immediate Revocation of License.  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
              Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, the 
 license and require closure of said healthcare center/institution,  including any 
 other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of the children 
<<<PAGE 102>>>
102  
 being provided care/services or the health and safety of the public.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 and §41.3.15 
 
Rule 2.3.24 Administrative Fines.  If the licensing agency determines that a PPEC center is 
not in compliance with this act, or applicable rules, the licensing agency may 
require that the PPEC center submit a corrective action plan that demonstrates a 
good-faith effort to remedy each violation by a specific date, subject to the 
approval of the licensing agency.  The licensing agency may fine a PPEC center 
or employee found in violation of this act, or applicable rules, in the amount not 
to exceed five thousand dollars ($5000.00) in the aggregate.  Should the center 
not correct a violation by the date agreed upon by the licensing agency, or the 
failure to comply with an approved corrective action plan, is a separate violation 
for each day that the failure continues, unless the licensing agency approves an 
extension to the specific date. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-15 
 
Rule 2.3.25 Closing of a PPEC Center.  Whenever a PPEC center voluntarily discontinues 
operation, it shall, at least thirty days before the discontinuance of operation, 
inform each child’s legal guardian of the fact and the proposed time of the 
discontinuance. The licensing agency shall also be notified  of the same such fact, 
at least thirty days prior to the date of discontinuance of operation.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-17 
 
Subchapter 4  Provision For Hearing And Appeal Following Denial or Revocation of 
License. 
 
Rule 2.4.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency shall provide an opportunity for 
a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in regard to the denial or revocation of a license. 
 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
a license. Upon written request of an applicant or licensee received  within ten 
(10) days of the date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date for the 
hearing at which time the applicant or licensee shall have an opportunity for a 
prompt and fair hearing. 
 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determinations shall be sent by registered 
mail to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally 
upon the applicant or licensee. 
 
<<<PAGE 103>>>
103  
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the applicant or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within a  thirty (30) day period, appeals to the Chancery Court 
pursuant to Section 43 -11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. An additional 
period of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19  
 
Subchapter 5   Administration and Management 
 
Rule 2.5.1 Rule 2.5.1 Licensee. The licensee of each PPEC center shall have full legal 
authority and responsibility for the operation of the center. The licensee shall 
assure that the PPEC center is administered on a sound financial basis consistent 
with good business practice. There shall be financial records and annual budget 
information including monthly statements of operation and Profit and Loss 
statements made available from the PPEC center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.2  Organizational Structure.  Each PPEC center must be organized in accordance 
with a written table of organization, which describes the lines of authority and 
communication down to the child care level. The organization structure must be 
designed so as to ensure an integrated continuum of services to the children. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.3    The licensee of each PPEC center must designate, in writing, one person, as 
Administrator, who is responsible and accountable for the overall management of 
the center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.5.4   Administrator Qualifications: The Administrator shall have the following 
minimum qualifications:  
 
1. Five years of experience in the delivery of health care services, with a 
minimum of two years administrative or supervisory experience and meet one 
of the following criteria: 
 
a. A physician currently licensed in the state of Mississippi; 
 
b. A registered nurse currently licensed in the state of Mississippi; 
 
c. A qualified health professional licensed by the state of Mississippi when 
required such as but not limited to a physician assistant, pharmacist, 
<<<PAGE 104>>>
104  
dietitian, respiratory care practitioner, social worker, physical therapist, 
occupational therapist or speech-language pathologist; 
 
d.   A college graduate with a bachelor’s degree or higher in a health related 
field. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.5   Administrator Designee.  The center administrator must designate, in writing, a 
person to be responsible for the center when the administrator is absent from or 
unavailable to the center for more than 24 hours. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Rule 2.5.6  Administrator Responsibilities: The center administrator shall: 
 
1. Be located on site at the center and serve full time as the Administrator. 
 
2. Maintain the following written records, and all other records as outlined under 
subchapter 13 of these rules. The records must be kept in a place, form, and 
system in accordance with medical and business practices and such records 
must be available in the center for inspection by the Department during normal 
business hours: 
 
3. A daily census record, which must indicate the names/number of children 
currently receiving services in the center.  Census records must be maintained 
and available for review, on the premises, for a period of three years. 
 
4. A record of all accidents or unusual incidents involving any child or staff 
member that caused, or had the potential to cause, injury or harm to any person 
or property within the center, and ensures for timely reporting within 24 hours 
of discovery to the Mississippi Department of Human Services and the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, Bureau of Health Facilities Licensure 
and Certification for those incidents involving allegations of abuse and/or 
neglect of the minor child.  
 
5. A copy of current agreements with third party providers; 
 
6. A copy of current agreements with each consultant contracted by the PPEC 
center and documentation of each consultant’s visit and required written, dated 
reports;  
 
7. A personnel record for each employee, which must include, at a minimum, a 
current copy and/or verification of the licensure status of professional discipline 
employed or on contract, the original employment application, references, 
employment history for the preceding five years, if applicable; a copy of the job 
<<<PAGE 105>>>
105  
description (acknowledged by employee); and a copy of all job performance 
evaluations;  
 
8. Develop and maintain a current job description for each employee; 
 
9. Provide each employee access to written personnel policies governing 
conditions of employment;  
 
10. Conduct annual written job performance reviews that note strengths and 
weaknesses and include plans to correct any job performance weaknesses. 
Performance evaluations must be reviewed with the employee; 
 
11. Assign duties to employees that are consistent with their job descriptions and 
their levels of education, preparation and experience; 
 
12. Provide necessary qualified personnel and ancillary services to ensure the 
health, safety, and proper care of the child; 
 
13. Ensure the development and implementation of policies and procedures, 
including but not limited to infection control and quality assurance. These 
policies and procedure must be included in the PPEC center’s policy manual. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.7   Organizational Responsibility.  The administrative structure of the PPEC center 
shall include a policy and procedure manual to assure standards for medical and 
nursing care are met and to assure that the requirements as set forth in licensure 
and certification are maintained. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.8   Resources.  Each PPEC center shall have the following documents on the 
premises and available to staff:  American Academy of Pediatrics Red Book, 
Minimum Standards of Operation for Prescribed Pediatric Extended Care, Policy 
and Procedure Manual and a Personnel Manual. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
Rule 2.5.9 Personnel Policies and Procedures shall include provisions for at least, a current 
personnel file, position descriptions, employee benefits, policy for attendance, 
overtime, compensatory time, performance evaluations, grievance procedures, and 
termination of employment. Personnel policies must also require that employees of 
the center are current in their immunizations and undergo a medical evaluation to 
rule out communicable diseases, including but not limited to, tuberculosis (TB). 
Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control 
<<<PAGE 106>>>
106  
and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding baseline employee TB 
testing and routine serial employee TB testing and education. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.10   A formal orientation shall be required for all PPEC center employees; staff 
development programs for all categories of personnel shall be held quarterly and 
documented accordingly. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.11  Policy and procedure manuals including but not limited to specifications for 
therapeutic intervention shall be available for use by all staff involved in the care 
of children. Revisions of the policies and procedures are reviewed and approved 
quarterly during QA meetings. All forms, policies and procedures are reviewed 
and signed off as approved by the administrator, medical director and the director 
of nursing services, annually to assure that procedures conform to prevailing and 
acceptable treatment modalities.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.5.12  For each employee of the PPEC center (see definition of employee), the center 
shall submit fingerprints to MSDH for the purpose of processing a                    
criminal history records check. The center shall develop policies and procedures                    
consistent with this requirement.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-11 
 
Rule 2.5.13 Criminal History Record Checks. The covered entity shall require to be 
performed a disciplinary check with the professional licensing agency, if any, for 
each employee to determine if any disciplinary action has been taken against the 
employee by the agency, and a criminal history record check on:  
 
1. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care or 
      services and who is employed after or on July 01, 2003.  
 
2. Every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, who has 
 documented disciplinary action by his or her present employer.  
 
3. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired on or after  
 July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care until the results 
of the criminal history check have revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver. Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background check, 
any person may be employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary 
basis pending the results of the criminal history record check by any 
<<<PAGE 107>>>
107  
employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be voidable, 
if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check.  
 
4. If such criminal history record check discloses a criminal conviction; a guilty 
plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a crime that is job -related which has 
not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been granted, the 
applicant/employee may not be eligible to be employed at the licensed facility.  
 
5.  Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, with 
the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and evidence of 
submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on 
file and maintained by the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment. The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification 
of the employee’s disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing 
agency and submission and/or complet ion of the criminal record check, the 
signed affidavit, if applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment.  
 
 6.  The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee applicant 
aggrieved by the employment decision under this subsection to appear before 
the licensed entity’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show mitigating 
circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or employee applicant to 
be employed at the covered entity . The covered entity, upon report and 
recommendation of the hiring officer, may grant waivers for those mitigating 
circumstances, which shall include, but not be limite d to: (1) age at which the 
crime was committed; (2) circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of 
time since the conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work 
history; (5) current employment and character references; and (6) other 
evidence demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to       
the health or safety of the patients in the licensed facility.  
 
7.  The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the fingerprints 
a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00).  
 
8.  Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check reveal 
no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) weeks of 
the notification of no disqualifying, event provide the employee applicant with 
a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the covered entity, or 
his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee applicant’s suitability 
for employment based on his or her criminal history record check. An employee 
applicant may use that letter for  a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the Mississippi 
Department of Health without the necessity of an additional criminal record 
check. Any covered entity presented with the letter may rely on the letter with 
respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background and is not required for 
<<<PAGE 108>>>
108  
a period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted 
a criminal history record check as required in this subsection.  
 
9.  For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct patient care 
as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal history 
record check.  
 
10. The licensing agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, 
attorneys and representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for 
any employment decision or action taken under this section. The presumption 
of good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil 
action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys and representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegati on of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-11 
 
Subchapter 6   Child/Parent’s Rights.  
 
Rule 2.6.1   Every child shall be treated with consideration, respect, and full recognition of  
                    his/her dignity and individuality. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.6.2   Each child shall receive care, treatment and services which are adequate and 
                   appropriate for his/her therapeutic plan. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.6.3  Parent(s) or legal guardian(s) shall, prior to and upon admission and during the 
period of service to his/her child, receive a written statement of the services 
provided by the PPEC center including those offered on an “as needed” basis. 
They shall also receive a statement of related charges including any charges for 
services not covered under the PPEC center’s basic per diem rate. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.6.4   Each child’s medical care program shall be conducted discreetly and in 
accordance with the parent’s/guardian’s need for privacy. Personal and medical 
records shall be treated confidentially and shall not be made public without 
written consent of parent(s) or legal guardian(s). 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.6.5   Each child shall be free from mental and physical abuse and also physical and 
<<<PAGE 109>>>
109  
                    chemical restraints, unless authorized by a physician according to clear and 
indicated medical requirements. Justification for use, shall include but not be 
limited to, the risks verses benefits for use and shall be documented by the 
physician and maintained as part of the child’s medical record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.6.6   Every parent or legal guardian has a right, personally or through others, to present  
                    grievances to state and local authorities without reprisal, interference, coercion or 
                   discrimination of the child as a result of the grievance or suggestion.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 7   Admission Procedures 
 
Rule 2.7.1  Each PPEC center shall have policies and procedures governing the admission,                    
transfer, and discharge of children. The admission of each child to the PPEC 
center shall be under the supervision of the center administrator or his/her 
designee, and shall be in accordance with the center’s child care policies and 
procedures. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.2   Hours of Service.  The hours of operation of a PPEC center must be clearly 
posted. At no time shall a child remain at a PPEC center in excess of twelve (12) 
hours in any one twenty-four (24) hour period, unless such center is licensed for 
twenty-four hour (24) continued service. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
RULE 2.7.3    Criteria for Admission.  Infants and children considered for admission to the 
 PPEC center shall be those who are medically or technologically dependent to 
 include, but not be limited to, conditions such  seizure disorder, chronic lung  
 disorder, malignancy, and heart disease and/or complex medical problems 
 requiring continual care, including but not limited to, ventilator dependence, 
 supplemental oxygen, I.V therapy, nasogastric or gastrostomy feedings,  
 tracheotomy, etc.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.4   Each child admitted to the PPEC center shall be admitted under the prescription 
of the licensed prescribing physician and shall remain under the care of the 
primary care or subspecialist physician for the duration of his/her stay at the 
center.  Each child placed in the PPEC center shall have documentation of the 
physician’s written order placed in the child’s medical record. A copy of the order 
shall be provided to the child’s parent(s) or guardian(s). 
<<<PAGE 110>>>
110  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.5   Infants and children considered for admission to the PPEC center shall be stable 
for outpatient medical services and shall not, prior to admission, present a 
significant risk of infection to the other children or personnel. The medical and 
nursing directors shall review, on a case-by-case basis, any child with a suspected 
infection to determine appropriateness of admission. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.6    A consent form outlining the purpose of a PPEC center, family responsibilities, 
authorized treatments and appropriate liability release and emergency disposition 
plans shall be signed by the parent(s) and/or guardian(s) prior to admission to the 
PPEC center. The parents and guardians shall be provided a copy of the consent 
form. Confidentiality of PPEC center’s records shall be maintained in accordance 
with HIPPA requirements.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.7    The protocol for care shall be developed under the direction of the PPEC center 
nursing director and shall specify the treatment plan needed to accommodate the 
medical, nursing, psychosocial and educational needs of the child and family.  
Specific goals for care shall be identified.  Plans for achieving the goals shall be 
determined and a schedule for evaluation of progress shall be established. The 
protocol shall include specific discharge criteria. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.8    The protocol must be signed by the physician, the authorized representative(s) of 
the PPEC center and the parent(s) or guardian(s) of the child with ten (10) days of 
initiation of the plan. Copies of the protocol shall be given to the parent(s), 
guardian(s) of the child, the child’s primary physician, PPEC center staff, and 
other agencies as appropriate.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.9   Communication with the child’s primary physician shall be provided by the 
nursing director or designee on a monthly or quarterly basis, as identified in the 
plan or at a minimum when there is a change in the child’s clinical condition. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.10   Prescribed therapies may be adjusted, in consultation with the child’s primary 
care or subspecialist physician, to accommodate the child’s condition. 
 
<<<PAGE 111>>>
111  
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.7.11   If a child is hospitalized at the time of referral, pre-admission planning will 
include the parents and guardians, relevant hospital medical, nursing, social 
services and developmental staff to assure that the hospital’s discharge plans will 
be implemented following placement in the PPEC center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 8   Medical Director  
 
Rule 2.8.1   Qualifications of a Medical Director.  A physician, licensed in accordance with 
the requirements of the Mississippi Board of Medical Licensure, and is board 
certified by the American Board of Pediatrics or the American Osteopathic Board  
of Pediatrics shall serve as medical director of the PPEC center.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.8.2   Responsibilities of the Medical Director shall be: 
 
1. Periodic review of services to assure acceptable levels of quality; 
 
2. Maintenance of a liaison role with the medical community; 
 
3. Advisement of the development of new programs and modifications of existing 
programs; 
 
4. Assurance that medical consultation will be available in the medical director’s 
absence; 
 
5. Serving on committees as defined and required by these rules and by the 
center’s policies; 
 
6. Consultation with the center administrator on the health status of the center’s 
personnel; 
 
7. Reviewing reports of all accidents and unusual incidents, to but not be limited 
to, medication errors, and identifying to the center administrator hazards to 
health and safety; and  
 
8. Ensuring the development of policies and procedures for the delivery of 
emergency services and the delivery of regular physician services when the 
child’s attending physician or his designated alternate is not available. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 112>>>
112  
Subchapter 9   Nursing Services 
 
Rule 2.9.1    Qualification of the Director of Nursing.  A registered nurse shall serve full- 
 time as the Director of Nursing. The Director of Nursing must have, at a 
minimum, the following qualifications: 
 
1.  Minimum of a baccalaureate degree in nursing; 
 
2. Current unrestricted Mississippi nursing license; 
 
3. Current certification in Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) or Basic 
Cardiac Life Support (BCLS); and 
 
4. Current certification in Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) 
 
5. A minimum of five years of employment in a pediatric setting caring for 
medically and/or technologically dependent children with at least three years of 
experience in one of the following specialty settings: pediatric intensive care, 
neonatal intensive care, pediatric emergency care, PPEC center or comparable 
pediatric unit 
 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.9.2    Responsibilities.  The Director of Nursing Services shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day operations of the PPEC center, to include but not be limited to, the 
development of and implementation of policies and procedures to facilitate 
effective and safe care and treatment modalities, scheduling of staff, coordination 
of employee and contracted specialized services in accordance with each child’s 
individualized  plan of care, participating in pre-admission screening along with 
other appropriate nursing staff, participating  on the interdisciplinary team (IDT) 
in the development of each child’s plan care, evaluation of all nursing services 
provided to each child; assuring that training and inservices are provided 
consistent with the treatments/care being provided and the identified weaknesses 
and/or needs of the employee.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.9.3  Registered Nurse Qualifications. Each registered nurse employed by the PPEC 
center shall have a current unencumbered Mississippi nursing license, have at 
least two years of pediatric specialty care experience with emphasis on medically 
and technologically dependent children and maintain current certification in 
pediatric CPR, pediatric advance life support (PALS) and basic first aid. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 113>>>
113  
Rule 2.9.4   Registered Nurse Responsibilities. The registered nurse shall be responsible for 
at least the following: 
 
1. The provision of nursing intervention; educational services to increase the 
family’s confidence and competence in caring for the child with special needs; 
assistance to facilitate coping with the effects of chronic illness on the child and 
family and suppo rt effective relationships among siblings and the ill child; 
interventions to foster normal development and psychosocial adaptation; 
 
2. Knowledge of the availability and access requirements to community resources;   
 
3. Participation in the interdisciplinary teams (IDT), as necessary and in the 
interdisciplinary staff meetings regarding the child’s progress. Fostering and 
maintaining collaborative relationship with the interdisciplinary teams; 
 
4. The administration of medication, intravenous infusions, parenteral feedings 
and other specialized treatments; monitoring and documenting the effects of 
medications, therapies and progress in accordance with accepted standards of 
practice; and  
 
5. Knowledge of the competence and scope of practice of other licensed and 
unlicensed personnel and delegation of duties to such personnel within that 
level of competence and scope of practice.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.9.5 Qualifications of Licensed Practical Nurse. Each licensed practical nurse 
employed by the PPEC center shall have a current unencumbered Mississippi 
nursing license, have at least two years of pediatric specialty care experience with 
emphasis on medically and technologically dependent children and current 
certification in pediatric CPR and basic first aid.  
 
Rule 2.9.6 Qualifications of Direct Care Staff. If direct care staff are utilized to  
  augment licensed nurse staffing, the direct care staff shall have a minimum of  
  the following qualifications: 
 
1. Two years of experience in a healthcare setting providing care to infants and 
children who are medically or technologically dependent; 
 
2. References documenting skill in the care of infants and children; and 
 
3. Current certification in pediatric CPR and basic first aid. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 114>>>
114  
Rule 2.9.7 The Licensed Practical Nurse and Direct Care Staff shall work under the 
supervision of the registered nurse and is responsible to provide, within their level 
of competence and scope of practice, direct care to the PPEC center children. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 10   Staffing 
 
Rule 2.10.1 Ratio.  Total staffing for nursing services shall be, at a minimum, in the following 
ratios but at no time shall there be less than one (1) staff member of duty per three 
(3) children. If only one (1) staff member is on duty, that member must be a 
registered nurse.  
 
Children Total Staff RN  
RN or LPN 
Direct Care, or Licensed 
Nurse (RN, LPN or 
Respiratory  
Therapist) 
1 1 1   
2-6 2 1  1 
7-9 3 1 1 1 
10-12 4 2 1 1 
13-15 5 3 1 1 
16-18 6 3 1 2 
19-21 7 4 1 2 
22-24 8 4 1 3 
25-27 9 4 1 4 
28-30 11 5 1 5 
31-33 12 5 1 6 
34 -36 13 5 2 6 
37- 39 14 5 3 6 
40-42 15 5 3 7 
43- 45 16 5 4 7 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
   
<<<PAGE 115>>>
115  
Rule 2.10.2 If a PPEC center has more than 45 children, the staffing must increase by one 
staff for every three (3) children, alternating between a direct care staff and 
licensed nurse.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.10.3 Ancillary Professional Staffing.  Although the PPEC center is not required to 
have the following disciplines on staff, such services may be contractual, on a 
consultant basis, depending on the assessed need of the child. 
 
1.  Resource consultants: 
 
a.  A child development specialist  available to serve as a resource for PPEC 
center staff and parents of children served who can be available to evaluate 
through use of standardized and non -standardized procedures the 
developmental status of children; 
 
b. A child life specialist who can assist in planning and conducting 
individualized child development and play programs; and who can serve as 
a resource to the PPEC center staff  and parents of children being served. 
 
Rule 2.10.4 The PPEC center shall have the following staff, either by employment or on a 
contractual as needed basis:  
 
1. Occupational therapy is the provision of services that addresses the 
developmental or functional needs of a child related to the performance of self-
help adaptive skills, adaptive behaviors, and sensory, motor and postural 
development. Occupational therapy  includes the evaluation and treatment to 
prevent or correct physical and emotional deficits, minimize the disabling 
effects of these deficits, maintain a level of function, acquire a skill set or A 
child life specialist who shall be responsible for at least the following: 
 
a. Evaluation of child following physician referral to include neuromuscular 
status, developmental level, perceptual motor functioning, need for adaptive 
equipment or appliances, self-care and play; 
 
b. Designing and implementing therapeutic programs to meet the needs of the 
individual child; 
 
c. Maintaining records documenting the therapy program and progress for 
each child as approved by the attending physician; and 
 
d. Participating as part of the child’s IDT team if occupational therapies are a 
part of the child’s plan and serving as a resource for PPEC center staff and 
the parents being served. 
 
<<<PAGE 116>>>
116  
2. Physical therapy services include the evaluation and treatment of range of 
motion, muscle strength, functional abilities and the use of adaptive and 
therapeutic equipment. The PPEC center shall assure the availability of, either 
by employment of contract, a physical therapist who is responsible for at least 
the following: 
 
a.  Evaluation of each child upon physician referral to include neuromuscular 
status, developmental level, gait, posture and adaptive equipment; 
 
b. Designing and implementing therapeutic programs to meet the needs of 
each individual child;  
 
c. Maintaining records documenting the therapy program and progress for 
each child as approved by the attending physician; and 
 
d. Serving as a resource for PPEC center staff and parents of children served.  
 
e. If physical therapy is an active component in the treatment of the child, the 
physical therapist shall participate as part of the child’s IDT. 
 
3. Respiratory care services include evaluation and treatment related to pulmonary 
dysfunction. Examples are ventilator support, therapeutic and diagnostic use of 
medical gases, respiratory rehabilitation, management of life support systems 
and bronchopulmonary drainage, breathing exercises and chest physiotherapy. 
The PPEC center shall assure the availability of a licensed respiratory therapist 
when appropriate, to: 
 
a. Evaluation of the respiratory function and needs of the child, make 
recommendations based upon that assessed need,  
 
b. Provide therapies, as appropriate, per physician orders, 
 
c. Maintain documentation of provided therapies, in accordance with 
physician’s orders and the child’s IDT plan, and the progress of the child 
and/or educational progress of the parents. 
 
d. Serve as a resource to train staff and parents of the child on the physiology 
of the child’s disease processor respiratory dysfunction and on the 
modalities necessary for care and treatment of the child.  
 
4. Speech language involves the evaluation and treatment of speech -language 
disorders, to include but not be limited to, the evaluation and treatments of 
verbal and written language, articulation, voice, fluency, phonology, 
mastication, deglutition, cognition , and communications. The PPEC center 
shall assure that a speech -language pathologist is available, either by 
employment or through a contractual basis on an as needed basis, for the: 
<<<PAGE 117>>>
117  
      
a. Evaluation of children to include: ability to swallow and feeding, 
respirations, language, speech, communication and play using formal and 
informal test and observations;  
 
b. Designing and implementing individualized therapeutic programs for each 
child, including recommendations for communication devices;  
 
c. Speech-language encounters must be face-to-face and the speech-language 
pathologist must maintain, in the child’s record, documentation of each 
evaluation,  documentation of therapies and progress; and  
 
d. Serving as a resource for the PPEC center staff and parents of children being 
served. 
 
e. Speech-language visits must be face-to-face encounters  
 
5. A social worker who is responsible for at least the following: 
 
a.  Conducting family psychosocial assessments as requested by the medical 
or nursing director 
 
b. Counseling, including emotional support and grief resolution as requested 
by the nursing and medical director, or family; 
 
c. Family advocacy and coordination with community resources;  
 
d. Maintaining records and documenting social work interventions;  
 
e. Conducting home visits and home evaluations as requested by the medical 
director or nursing director; and 
  
f. Serving as a resource for the PPEC center staff and parents of children 
served. 
 
6. A dietician, who is licensed in the State of Mississippi and currently registered 
with the American Dietetic Association, will be available on a consultant basis. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 11  Developmental Services 
 
Rule 2.11.1 Each child shall have a functional assessment and an individualized family 
service plan (IFSP) to include developmentally appropriate areas. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
<<<PAGE 118>>>
118  
 
Rule 2.11.2 The child’s IFSP plan shall include specific programs and action steps to facilitate 
developmental progress and shall be reviewed and updated per early 
intervention/early step guidelines. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.11.3 Developmental and educational needs shall be incorporated into each child’s 
protocol for care.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.11.4 The PPEC center shall provide evidence of a good-faith effort in assuring the 
development of a comprehensive developmental program for each child birth 3 
years old to meet the identified developmental needs of the child. The PPEC 
center may enter into a contractual relation with the local early intervention 
provider/early steps to assure that these services are met and provided 
accordingly. The child’s IFSP plan shall include: 
 
1. Measurable goals in need areas and/or goals to enhance and normalize 
independent functioning in daily activities and to promote socialization in order 
to minimize difficulties in being assimilated into the home/community  
environment; 
 
2. A description of the child’s strengths and present performance level with 
respect to each goal; 
 
3. Skills areas in priority order; 
 
4. Anticipatory planning for specific areas identified at risk for problems even 
though a specific delay or problem may not be demonstrable. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.11.5 The developmentalist and/or child life specialist shall participate in regularly 
scheduled interdisciplinary staff meetings as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.11.6 A program for parent(s) and/or guardian(s) shall be provided to prepare parent(s) 
or guardian(s) to accommodate the child’s needs as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 119>>>
119  
Rule 2.11.7 The PPEC center shall assist parent(s) and guardian(s) by including them in care-
related conferences and teaching them how to perform necessary therapies and 
how to meet the developmental and psychosocial needs of the child at home.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.11.8 PPEC center staff shall make referrals to appropriate resources, facilitate access to 
community, social, educational and financial services, and shall provide 
assistance to enhance coping skills, interpersonal; relationships and family 
functioning.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 12    Educational Services 
 
Rule 2.12.1 The PPEC center shall provide evidence of a good-faith effort in assuring the 
development of a comprehensive educational program for each school-aged child 
to meet the identified educational needs of the child. The PPEC center may enter 
into a contractual relationship with the local school system to assure that these 
services are met and provided accordingly. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.12.2 Each child, after being determined appropriate for educational services based on  
a comprehensive assessment, shall have a comprehensive individualized 
educational plan (IEP). Such plan shall be based upon the assessed needs of the 
child and shall be developed in coordination with PPEC center staff. If a child is 
on an IEP, the educational teacher /instructor shall participate in the child’s 
overall IEP and review.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.12.3 The PPEC center shall provide a room, space or adequate workspace, well lighted 
and equipped with general supplies such as tables, desks, chalkboard/whiteboard, 
etc. to be conducive to such specialized educational learning. The PPEC center 
may request parent or the local school system participation in the purchase of 
books, routine schools supplies, etc., necessary for their child’s day-to-day school 
activities. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.12.4 For children needing or receiving educational instruction, the educational 
instructor/teacher shall participate as part of the interdisciplinary team to assure  
coordination of the child’s care and services with the scheduled educational 
component of activities. The PPEC center will provide an area to post the 
calendar and school related information bulletins. The instructor shall document 
<<<PAGE 120>>>
120  
in the child’s school record the progress of the child. A duplicate copy shall be 
maintained o the PPEC center premises at all times. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 13    Nutrition Services  
 
Rule 2.13.1 A registered dietician shall be available for consultation regarding the nutritional 
needs and special diets of individual children. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.13.2 If the PPEC center serves food to the children, a Certified Food Service Manager,  
who works under the consulting registered dietician, shall be available and 
responsible for overseeing dietary services. All physician-prescribed meals, 
snacks, special diets and dietary supplements shall meet the daily nutritional 
requirements of the child as ordered. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.13.3 If a child has a specific allergy to foods or is on a special diet, PPEC center staff 
shall be notified and the such allergies notated as part of the child’s medical 
record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.13.4 Prepared foods shall be kept under refrigeration with identifying dates and the 
child’s name. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.13.5 If the PPEC center prepares meals, per menu, for the children, a copy of the 
menus to include substitutions available must be posted in a place accessible to 
the parents and be made available for parental review.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 14  Transportation Services 
 
Rule 2.14.1 If transportation services are provided by a PPEC center and prescribed by the 
primary care or subspecialist physician, a procedure delineating personnel and 
equipment to accompany the child shall be included in the PPEC center procedure 
manual. PPEC center policy and procedure shall clearly state, regardless of the 
transportation provision, if the child is to be under the care of the PPEC center, 
the PPEC center is responsible for the safety of the children. 
 
<<<PAGE 121>>>
121  
1. If the PPEC Center provides transportation of the child to and from the center; 
the PPEC center shall exercise best efforts to limit the time a child, regardless 
of his/her region of origin, may be in transport, not to exceed an average of 
one hour on any single trip.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.14.2 All children shall be properly restrained whenever they are being transported in a 
motor vehicle. 
 
1. Every person transporting a child under the age of four (4) in a passenger motor 
vehicle and operated on a public roadway, street or highway, shall provide for 
the protection of the child by properly using a child passenger restraint device 
or system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards, i.e., child 
safety seat. 
 
2. Every person transporting a child in a passenger motor vehicle operated on a 
public roadway, street or highway, shall provide for the protection of the child 
by using a belt positioned booster seat system meeting applicable federal motor 
vehicle safety standards if the child is at least four (4) years of age, but less than 
seven (7) years of age and measures less than four (4) feet nine (9) inches in 
height or weighs less than sixty-five pounds. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
 
Rule 2.14.3 An individual seat restraint must be used for each child. The use of an individual 
seat restraint for two or more children is not allowed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.14.4 Should the PPEC center provide or contract for transportation, it is incumbent 
upon the center to assure that: 
 
1. All drivers are appropriately licensed; 
 
2. All vehicles used for the transportation of the PPEC center children have 
licenses (vehicle tag) and registration; and be registered in the name of the 
PPEC center and the county in Mississippi where operating and serving 
children; 
 
3. Insurance adequately covers the transportation of children; 
 
4. A daily sign-in sheet or log is maintained of the children being transported and 
include the to/from location; 
 
<<<PAGE 122>>>
122  
5. A trained medical escort will accompany all children during transport. An 
additional medical escort shall be required for every six children. The driver of 
the bus/vehicle cannot serve as a medical escort; 
 
6. Children board and leave from the curbside of the street and/or safely 
accompanied to the destinations; 
 
7. Upon arrival via transportation to the child’s final destination care of child is 
relinquished to either a parent/guardian or designated caregiver as authorized 
by the parent or guardian. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 15     Inservice Training For Staff and Parents and Guardians 
 
Rule 2.15.1 Each PPEC center shall develop staff and parent/guardian orientation and training 
programs. These programs include but are limited to the following: 
 
1. Quarterly staff development/inservice programs appropriate to the category of 
personnel will be conducted to maintain quality patient care; All staff 
development programs will be documented; to include date/time, trainer, listing 
of attendees and a summary  of the program content/training. This 
documentation shall be maintained for a period of three years, unless pertinent 
to a specific child’s care; then reference to the training shall be maintained as 
part of the child’s record as long as the child receives the service of the center.  
 
2. Annual pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation review and update;  
 
3. New hire orientation to acquaint the employee with the philosophy, 
organization, program, practices and goals of the PPEC center; 
 
4. Parent orientation to acquaint the parent/guardian to the PPEC center, including 
philosophy of the center, goals, expectations, not only of staff/caregivers but 
also of parents (such as expectation that parent and/or guardian participate in 
the IEP) and services that can be offered and/or expected; 
 
5. Parent/guardian trainings shall be documented in the child’s medical record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 16   Medical Record 
 
Rule 2.16.1   A medical record shall be maintained for each child. The medical record shall 
contain at least the following: 
 
<<<PAGE 123>>>
123  
1. All details of the referral, admission, correspondence and papers concerning the 
child; 
 
2. Entries in the medical record shall be in ink, shall be signed by the authorized 
personnel, to include name and title/discipline, and shall include at least the 
following: 
 
a. Physician’s orders; 
 
b. Flow charts of medications and treatments administered; 
 
c. Concise accurate information and initialed case notes reflecting progress 
toward protocol of care goals achievement or reasons for lack of progress; 
 
d. Documentation of nutritional management and special diets, as appropriate; 
 
e. Documentation of nursing, physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and 
social service assessments, goals, treatment plans, documentation of each 
treatment, to include date, time and therapy/treatments provided and 
progress of the child; 
 
f. An individualized protocol of care developed within ten (10) working days 
of admission and revised, as necessary, to include recommended changes in 
the therapeutic plan. The disposition to be followed in the event of 
emergency situations shall be specified in the plan of care; 
 
g. Medical history to include allergies and special precautions; 
 
h. Immunization record; 
 
i. Quarterly reviews of the protocol of care to update the plan in consultation 
with other professionals involved in the child’s care; 
 
j. A discharge order, written by the primary care or subspecialist physician, 
shall be documented and entered in the child’s record. A discharge 
summary, which includes the reason for discharge, shall also be included. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Subchapter 17 Infection Control 
 
Rule 2.17.1  Infection Control Procedures.  Each PPEC center shall have written infection 
control procedures to include at least the following: 
 
1. The PPEC center shall contain an isolation room with one large glass area for 
observation of the child. Isolation procedures shall be used to prevent cross -
<<<PAGE 124>>>
124  
contamination. The room shall be equipped with emergency outlets and 
equipment as necessary to provide are to the child. A bathroom accessible to 
the isolation room but separate from the other PPEC center’s rooms is required. 
Procedures must address that a ll equipment must be thoroughly cleaned and 
sanitized when brought into the isolation room and upon removal from the 
room; 
 
2. All cribs and beds shall be labeled with the individual child’s name. Linens are 
to be maintained clean and in good repair and shall be removed for laundering 
whenever soiled or needed; however, laundering of all linens shall occur, at a 
minimum, on a weekly basis; 
 
3. Antibacterial soap and disposable paper towels shall maintained at each sink. 
Policy shall address that staff shall wash their hands between each treatment 
and care interaction with a child for which the hands may become 
contaminated/soiled;  
 
4. Children suspected of having a communicable disease, which may be contacted 
through casual contact, as determined by the facility’s medical director, shall 
be isolated; the parent(s) shall be notified of the condition; and the child shall 
be removed from the PPEC center as soon as possible. When the communicable 
disease is no longer present; as written by a written physician’s statement, the 
child may return to the PPEC center; and 
 
5. PPEC center staff suspected of having a communicable disease shall not return 
to the PPEC center until all signs and symptoms which relate to the 
communicable disease are no longer evident, as evidenced by a written 
physician’s statement.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 18 Quality Assurance 
 
Rule 2.18.1 The PPEC center shall have a quality assurance program and will conduct 
quarterly reviews of the PPEC center’s medical records for at least one-half (1/2) 
of the children served by the PPEC center at the time of the quality assurance 
review.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.18.2 The quality assurance review will be conducted by, at a minimum, two members 
of the quality assurance committee.  The quality assurance responsibilities shall 
rotate among the quality assurance committee at least on an annual basis.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 125>>>
125  
Rule 2.18.3 Each quarterly quality assurance review shall include: 
 
1. A review of the protocols in each child’s Protocol of Care to assure that it 
clearly reflects the assessed needs of the child, to include but not be limited to, 
the evaluation, goals/expectation, treatment modalities and care provided, by 
each professional discipline serving the child; 
 
2. A review of the steps, process, and success in achieving the goals; 
 
3. Identification of goals not being achieved as expected, reasons for lack of 
achievement and plans to promote goal achievement; 
 
4. When a child’s clinical status changes, either improvement or decline, that the  
protocol of care is revised to accommodate the child’s change in status as 
evidence by revised professional assessments and re-formulation of goals; 
 
5. Within ten days of the review, the quality assurance committee will meet, 
discuss and ratify the report. Within fifteen days of the review, the quality 
assurance committee shall furnish copies of its report to the PPEC center 
medical and nursing directors. 
 
6. The PPEC center shall develop a corrective action plan for each area in which 
the center failed to meet the established expectations and goals  and shall assure 
implementation of measures, as appropriate, for correction of any deficient area.  
PPEC center management, to include the medical director and the director of 
nursing, shall sign the quality assurance report indicating awareness of the 
deficient findings and shall insure that measures are put into place to correct 
any deficient practice and/or to prevent the reoccurrence of any such practice.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 19 Equipment 
 
Rule 2.19.1 Each PPEC center shall maintain an age and developmentally appropriate 
environment including but not limited to furnishings, equipment, adaptive devices 
and indoor/outdoor therapeutic play/educational equipment and supplies, etc. At 
the time of request for initial licensure, the PPEC center shall have the capability 
with regard to furnishings, equipment, adaptive devices and indoor/outdoor 
therapeutic play/educational equipment and supplies, etc to provide services to the 
children for the licensure capacity requested. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.2 Each PPEC center shall provide safety, medical and emergency equipment as 
described below. All equipment shall be maintained in a safe, usable and sanitary 
condition. 
<<<PAGE 126>>>
126  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.3 Each full size infant crib shall meet the construction standards as established in 
Federal Regulations 16 CFR 1219 or its successor regulation. Each non-full size 
infant crib shall meet the construction standards as established in Federal 
Regulations 16 CFR 1220 or its successor regulations. Pediatric hospital beds 
with rails, age appropriate elevated cots or toddler beds are permissible in the 
PPEC center. The PPEC center shall have documentation/specifications that cribs, 
beds and cots used in the center meets the stated federal construction and/or child 
safety standards as applicable. The use of stackable cribs and rest mats are 
prohibited. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.4 Safety equipment.  The following items of safety equipment shall be available on 
the premises:  
 
1. Fire Code Items: extinguishers, alarms, smoke detectors as required by “Life 
Safety Code” (NFPA 2000 Edition, at a minimum) which references, but is not 
limited to: 
 
a. Circuit interrupters; 
 
b. Flush door openers; 
 
c. Child proof latches on closets, cabinets; 
 
d. Straps on all highchairs, swings, infant seats; 
 
e. Locks on storage cabinets housing hazardous/poisonous materials; 
 
f. Integral child proof safety outlets or electrical outlet covers. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.5 Medical Equipment/Supplies. The following items at a minimum, shall be 
available on the premises: 
 
1. Suction machines -one per child requiring daily suctioning plus one 
suctioning machine for emergency use; 
 
2. Double lockable narcotic cabinet; 
 
3. Mechanical percussors and hand percussors, as prescribed; 
 
<<<PAGE 127>>>
127  
4. Oxygen-in two portable tanks in storage carts (one with low flow, one with 
high flow regulator), two Oxygen concentrators (one with low flow, one 
with high flow regulator) or piped in with the appropriate tubing, 
neonate/infant, pediatric and adult manual resuscitation devices with masks 
to accommodate faces and tracheotomies; 
 
5. Ventilator with provisions for mixing of gases to prescribed oxygen 
concentration as specifically prescribed  shall be available per child 
requiring mechanical ventilation in the PPEC center; 
 
6. Pulse oximeter with supplies;  
 
7. Electronice Blood Pressure machine (Dinamap); 
 
8. First Aid supply kit; 
 
9. Thermometers-excluding glass thermometers, manual 
sphygmomanometers, stethoscopes, otoscopes, and ophthalmoscopes; 
 
10. Apnea monitoring supplies-belts, leads to apply to monitors brought from 
home; and  
 
11. Disposable supplies, to include but not be limited to, gloves, scissors, and 
other disposable equipment needed by the child or by staff in the care of the 
child,  shall be on hand at the PPEC center, as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.6 Emergency Equipment and Supplies.  At least the following items of 
emergency equipment and supplies shall be available on the premises: 
 
1. Centers shall equip the building with an emergency generating system; 
Level 1, Type 10 or equivalent in accordance with current NFPA 110 
Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems; with adequate 
generating power to maintain full power to the building in the case of power 
failure; 
 
2. Basic emergency equipment,  including but not limit to:  
 
a. Airways - in a range of sizes appropriate for the children served; 
 
b. Suction catheters-in a range of  sizes as necessary to meet the needs of 
each child served;  
 
<<<PAGE 128>>>
128  
c. Pediatric manual resuscitators - self-inflating, with preemie, infant and 
pediatric mask (and adult resuscitators/mask available, if older, more 
developed children accepted); 
 
d. Pediatric AED device; 
 
e. Child oxygen mask; 
 
f. Infant oxygen mask; 
 
g. Oxygen regulator with mist bottle and heating element; 
 
h. Flashlight with extra batteries; 
 
i. Stethoscope; 
 
j. Feeding tubes – in a range of appropriate sizes for the children being 
served; 
 
k. Disposable syringes, needles with size needles appropriate for the 
pediatric population and other children being served; 
 
l. Intravenous catheters, angio-catheters an scalp vein needles in a range 
of appropriate pediatric sizes (sizes as  appropriate for each child being 
served); 
 
m.  Tourniquets; armboards for preemie, infant and children being served,  
IV starting supplies, various sizes of adhesive tape; 
 
n. Two-way stopcocks; 
 
o. Two electrical outlet adapters for three-prong outlets; 
 
p. Betadine preps and alcohol supplies. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.19.7 Fluids/Medications. Basic drugs and solutions shall be on-site, available and 
accessible to medical/nursing staff, at all times: 
 
1. Epinephrine (ampules, vials, or syringes) - 2 each of 1:1000 and 1:10,000;  
 
2. Dextrose (vials or syringes) 1 each of  a) 25% solutions and b) 50% solutions; 
 
3. Activated Charcoal  (1); 
 
<<<PAGE 129>>>
129  
4. Sterile Water (vials or syringes) – 2;  
 
5. Normal Saline (vials or syringes) – 2; 
 
6. Intravenous fluids of Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, Dextrose 5% in Lactated 
Ringers, Normal Saline---500 cc/bag   (2 each);  
 
7. Heparin 10 units – 2 (vials or syringes), Heparin 100unit – 2 (vials or syringes); 
 
8. Diphenhydramine (Benadryl 50mg/ml) – 1 (vials or syringes). 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 20   Physical Environment 
 
Rule 2.20.1 Construction.  For any existing construction, as of the date of this standard, shall 
meet, at a minimum, NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, current edition and the FGI 
(Facility Guidelines Institute) Guidelines for Design and Construction of Health 
Care Facilities. In the event of the construction of a new PPEC center or substantial 
modification of an existing facility, any subsequent edition of NFPA, Life Safety 
Code may be used, provided the licensing agency approve the use of such edition 
and that all construction and/or mod ifications meet the requirements of the 
approved edition. 
 
1. The construction of the building should be a free-standing building. 
 
2. Automatic Sprinklers Required. Facilities shall be protected throughout by a 
supervised automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current 
edition of NFPA 13, Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 
 
3. Fire Code Items: 
 
a. Fire extinguishers in accordance with current edition NFPA 10, Standard 
for Portable Fire Extinguishers. 
 
b. Fire alarms and smoke detectors in accordance with current edition of 
NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code 
 
  
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.2 The PPEC center at a minimum shall include the following programmatic design 
elements:  
 
1. Separate Quiet Rooms for each age group served. These rooms shall be separate 
and distinct from play areas and shall contain appropriate sleep furnishings that 
<<<PAGE 130>>>
130  
are readily available. Quiet rooms should be equipped with blinds or other 
means of controlling the amount of light; 
 
2. Nutritional and food prep area;  
 
3. Age appropriate toileting facilities; 
 
4. Indoor and outdoor recreational exercise play areas, with each exercise play 
area maintaining 35 square feet per licensed child. Outdoor play areas should 
be of appropriate surface and conform to the US Consumer Product Safety 
Commission Public Playground Safety Handbook.  In addition, outdoor play 
areas should have covered areas for protection from sun; 
 
5. Treatment room with med prep area, containing lockable storage; 
 
6. Isolation room containing an observation window as well as a window to the 
outside, allowing for natural light, with a dedicated toilet room. 
 
7. Clean and dirty storage rooms, separate and distinct; 
 
8. Janitorial closet;  
 
9. Biohazard closet;  
 
10. Therapy/education/activity learning lab areas, separate and distinct; 
 
11. Laundry room;  
 
12. General storage rooms; for equipment, wheelchairs, etc.; 
 
13. Staff area;  
 
14. Reception area;  
 
15. Administrative office; 
 
16. Separate guest and child entrances. In addition, child vehicular drop off areas 
should be covered; and the size of the covering should be large enough to 
protect from inclement weather;  
 
17. Maximum Occupant Load for the building shall be calculated based on 100 
gross square feet per person to include staff and each child. 
 
18. Milieu containing finishes and furnishings, in texture and color, which support 
child development, and the specific activities and services conducted in the 
PPEC center. 
<<<PAGE 131>>>
131  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.3    SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.  Construction shall not 
be started for any institution subject to these standards (whether new or 
remodeling or additions to an existing licensed PPEC) until the plans and 
specifications for such construction or remodeling have been submitted to the 
Licensing Agency in writing and its approval of the changes given in writing.  
 
1. Exception: Foundation changes made necessary by unanticipated conditions, 
or any conditions which present a hazard to life or property if not immediately 
corrected.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.4   Plans and specifications for any substantial construction or remodeling shall be 
prepared by competent architects and engineers licensed to practice in the state and 
who assume responsibility for supervising the construction. The following plans 
shall be submitted to the Licensing Agency for review:  
 
1.  Preliminary Plans - To include schematics of buildings, plot plans showing size 
and shape of entire site, existing structures, if any, streets and location and 
characteristics of all needed utilities, floor plans of every floor dimensioned and 
with proposed use of each room or area shown and gross area calculations as 
defined by current edition NFPA 101 Life Safety Code. If for additions or 
remodeling, provide plan or of existing building showing all proposed 
alterations, outline specifications to inclu de a general description of the 
construction, type of finishes, and type of heating, ventilating, plumbing and 
electrical systems proposed.  
2.  Final Working Drawings and Specifications - Complete and in sufficient detail 
to be the basis for the award of construction contracts.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.5 All plans submitted for review must be accompanied in their first submission by an 
order of the governing board indicating the type and scope of license to be applied 
for. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Rule 2.20.6 Plans receiving approval of the Licensing Agency upon which construction has not 
begun within six (6) months following such approval must be resubmitted for 
approval.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
<<<PAGE 132>>>
132  
 
Rule 2.20.7 In all new facilities, plans must be submitted to all regulatory agencies, such as the 
County Health Department, etc., for approval assuring proper water/sewer 
connectivity/facilities prior to starting construction.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.8  Upon completion of construction, an inspection shall be made by the Licensing 
Agency and approval given prior to occupying the building or any part thereof. The 
state and county health departments shall have access to the job site during regular 
business hours and shall conduct construction progress inspections as deemed 
necessary by the agency.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.9   Zoning Restrictions. The locations of a center shall comply with all local zoning 
ordinances.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.10 Access.  Institutions located in rural areas shall be served by good roads which can 
be kept passable at all times.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.11 Elevators. One power driven elevator is required in all centers having children’s 
rooms,  playrooms or classrooms above the first floor. Minimum cab dimensions 
required for elevators transporting children is 76" x 50" inside clear measurements; 
hatchway and cab doors 3'8" wide, minimum.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.20.12  Heating and Ventilation.   A draft free seasonally appropriate temperature of 65 
degrees Fahrenheit to 78 degrees Fahrenheit shall be maintained. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
  
Subchapter 21 Emergency Operations Plan 
 
Rule 2.21.1 The PPEC center shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan utilizing 
the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The plan must 
include procedures to be flowed in the event of any act of terrorism or man-made 
or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geological location.  The final 
draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) will be reviewed by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department of Health, 
or their designees, for conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
<<<PAGE 133>>>
133  
Preparedness and Response Plan.  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evaluate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specific 
ECP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications - Facility status report shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP; 
 
2. Resources and Assets; 
 
3. Safety and Security; 
 
4. Staffing; 
 
5. Utilities; 
 
6. Clinical Activities. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.21.2   Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or 
as directed by the office of Emergency Preparedness and Response.  Written 
evidence of current approval or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all applications for 
facility license renewals. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Subchapter 22   Facility Fire Preparedness 
 
Rule 2.22.1 Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees  
                       shall participate in a fire drill at least four time per year.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.22.2 Written Records.  Written records of all fire drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
Rule 2.22.3 A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a conspicuous place and 
kept current. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §41-125-19 
 
<<<PAGE 134>>>
134  
Chapter 3 Minimum Standards of Operation of Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facilities  
Subchapter 1 General:  Legal Authority 
 
Rule 3.1.1 Authority.  By virtue of authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated, 
§43-13-117, or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi State Department of Health 
(MSDH, otherwise known as the licensing agency), has the authority and powers, 
as necessary, to promulgate and adopt the following rules, regulations and 
standards governing and to license and regulate Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facilities in the State of Mississippi. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.1.2 Procedures Governing Amendments.  The rules, regulations and minimum 
standards for Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facilities may be amended by the 
licensing agency from time to time as necessary to promote the health, safety and 
welfare of the children being served and to assure that centers provide the 
necessary family-centered medical, developmental, psychological, nutritional, 
psychological and family training services. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.1.3 Inspections Required.  No Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall operate 
without a license. No Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall be licensed without 
being inspected and having achieved compliance with the rules, regulations and 
standards as set forth in this minimum standard.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility for which a license has been issued shall be inspected by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health or by persons delegated with authority by said 
Mississippi State Department of Health at such interval that the Department may 
direct. Mississippi State Department of Health and/or its authorized 
representatives shall have the right to inspect construction work in progress.   The 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall provide Mississippi State Department of 
Health unrestricted access to the center, children and clinical/medical records as 
necessary to verify compliance with said rules and regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 2  Definitions 
 
Rule 3.2.1 General.  A listing of terms often used in connection with the rules and 
regulations and standards follows: 
 
1. Basic Services.  Include, but are not limited to development, implementation and 
monitoring of a comprehensive protocol of care, developed in conjunction with the 
parent or guardian, which specifies the medical, nursing, psychosocial and 
developmental therapies required by the medically dependent or technologically 
<<<PAGE 135>>>
135  
dependent child served as well as the caregiver training needs of the child’s legal 
guardian.  
 
2. Child Development Specialist.  Shall mean an individual with a master’s degree 
in child development or a related field with at least one year of experience in trans-
disciplinary evaluation and treatment planning for children who are at risk of 
experiencing developmental delay.  
 
3. Child Life Specialist.  Shall mean an individual with a baccalaureate degree in 
child life, early childhood education or a related field and at least one year of 
experience in planning and implementing developmental stimulation programs for 
children. 
 
4. Criminal History Record Check.  For purposes of the requirement for a criminal 
history record check: 
 
a.  Employee -For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a covered entity . 
The term “employee” also includes any individual who by contract with a 
covered entity provides patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room 
or in treatment rooms provides direct care/services for clients currently enrolled 
in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.  
 
b.  The term employee does not include healthcare professional/ technical students, 
as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a licensed entity 
under contracts between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not 
include students at high schools who observe the treatment and care of patients 
in a licensed entity as part of the requirements of an allied health course taught 
in the school if:  
 
i.  The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; 
and  
 
ii.  The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school 
stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo 
contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses 
listed in section 45 -33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, 
burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse 
and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea 
was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea.  
 
iii.  Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
<<<PAGE 136>>>
136  
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37 -115-41 are 
exempt from application of the term employee. 
 
c.   Covered Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered   
  entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional staffing agency.  
 
d.   Licensed Entity - For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, home 
health agency, hospice, PPEC or a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.   
 
e.  Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program - For 
purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care professional/vocational 
technical academic program” means an academic program in medicine, 
nursing, dentistry, occupational therapy, physical therapy, social services, 
speech therapy, or other allied-health professional whose purpose is to prepare 
professionals to render patient care services.  
 
f.  Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student - For purposes of 
criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a healthcare 
professional/vocational technical academic program.  
 
g. Direct Patient Care or Services - For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means direct 
hands-on medical patient care and services provided by an individual in a 
patient, resident or client’s room, treatment room, recovery room or Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility. Individuals providing direct patient care may be 
directly employed by the facility or provides patient care on a contractual basis.  
 
h.  Documented Disciplinary Action - For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary action” 
means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient.  
 
5. Direct Care Staff. For the purposes of these minimum standards, direct care staff 
shall include certified nursing assistants, patient care technicians, medical 
assistants, emergency medical technician (EMT), play assistants or any individual 
with training and experience in child care related fields.  
 
6. Functional Assessment.  Refers to an evaluation of the child’s abilities and needs 
related to self -care, communication skills, social skills, motor skills, academic 
areas, play with toys or objects, growth and development appropriate for age.  
 
7. License.  Shall mean the document issued by the Mississippi State Department of 
Health and signed by the State Health Officer. Licensure shall constitute authority 
to receive patients and perform the services included within the scope of these rules, 
regulations and  standards. A license shall be issued only for the location as 
addressed on the license and is not transferable. 
<<<PAGE 137>>>
137  
 
8. Licensee.  Shall mean the individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation 
to whom the license is issued and upon whom rests the responsibility for the 
operation and all aspects of administrative/regulatory compliance of the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Center. 
 
9. Licensing Agency.   Shall mean Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
10. Medical Director.  Shall mean a physician, licensed to practice in the State of 
Mississippi, certified by the American Board of Pediatrics or the American 
Osteopathic Board of Pediatrics, who serves as a liaison between the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility and the medical community.  
 
11. Medical Records.   Shall mean medical records maintained in accordance with 
acceptable standards and practices as specified by the rules implementing this act. 
 
12. Medically Dependent or Technologically Dependent Child.  Shall mean a child, 
from birth up to 21 years of age who because of a medical condition/disability 
whether acute, chronic or intermittent in nature requires on -going physician 
prescribed, technologically-based skilled nursing supervision and/or requires  the 
routine use of a medical device to compensate for the deficit of life-sustaining body 
function. (See Aging-in Place under admissions)  
 
13. Nursing Director.  Shall mean a licensed registered nurse, licensed in accordance 
with the Mississippi Nurse Practice Act, who maintains responsibility for providing 
continuous supervision of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility services and 
manages the day-to-day operations of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.  
 
14. Owner or Operator. Shall mean a licensee. 
 
15. Physical Therapist.   Shall mean, for purposes of these minimum standards, an 
individual, licensed in the State of Mississippi, who has at least one year’s 
experience in evaluating and designing therapeutic programs for children with 
developmental disabilities.  
 
16. Premises.  Shall mean those buildings, beds, facilities and fenced outdoor 
recreational/play area located at the main address of the licensee.  
 
17. Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.  Shall mean any building or buildings, or other 
place, whether operated for profit or not, which undertakes through its ownership 
or management to provide basic residential services to three (3) or more medically 
dependent or technologically dependent children who are not related to the owner 
or operator by blood, marriage or adoption and who require such services. Infants 
and children considered for admission to a Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility must be ventilator dependent or otherwise medically dependant 
pediatric patients who require medical and nursing care or rehabilitative services; 
<<<PAGE 138>>>
138  
thus, having complex medical conditions that require continual care. Prerequisites 
for admission are a prescription from the child’s physician and consent from a 
parent or guardian.  
 
18. Prescribing Physician.  Shall mean the physician, licensed to practice medicine in 
the State of Mississippi that signs the order admitting the child to the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility. 
 
19. Primary or Subspecialist Physician.   Shall mean the physician, licensed to 
practice medicine in the State of Mississippi, who maintains overall responsibility 
for the medical management of the child and who is available for consultation and 
collaboration with the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. 
 
20. Protocol of Care.   The comprehensive plan for implementation of medical, 
nursing, psychosocial, developmental, and education therapies to be provided by 
the Prescribed Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. 
  
21. Psychiatrist.  Shall mean, for purposes of these minimum standards, a board -
certified psychiatrist, licensed to practice in the State of Mississippi and who has at 
least two years of experience in child psychology. 
 
22. Psychologist.  Shall mean, for purposes of these minimum standards, a licensed 
individual in Mississippi with doctorial; preparation in child or developmental 
counseling psychology, or a related field, and at least two years current experience 
in evaluation and management of children.  
 
23. Quality Assurance (QA) Committee .  A group of individuals, including the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility Medical Director, Administrator, Director of 
Nursing, two other healthcare members and at least one consumer member with an 
interest in Pediatric Nursing Facility services who func tions to conduct the duties, 
as outlined in Subchapter 18 of these minimum standards, which includes but is not 
limited to, review of medical records, review and approval of  policies and 
procedures, treatment plans/procedures and to evaluate the quality of care provided 
to children enrolled in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.  
 
24. Social Worker.   Shall mean, for purposes of these minimum standards, an 
individual, licensed to practice social work in the State of Mississippi, and who has 
at least one year of experience in assessing, counseling, and planning interventions 
for children and their families or guardians. 
 
25. Speech Pathologist.  Shall mean, for purposes of these minimum standards, an 
individual who attained a master’s degree in speech -language pathology from an 
educational institution accredited by the American Speech -Language, Hearing 
Association, licensed to practice speech -language pathology in the State of 
Mississippi, and who has at least one year of experience in evaluating and treating 
children at risk for, or experiencing problems with communication skills.  
<<<PAGE 139>>>
139  
 
26. Supportive Services or Contracted Services .  Includes but are not limited to 
speech therapy, occupational therapy, physical therapy, respiratory therapy, social 
work, developmental, educational services.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 3   Licensing 
 
Rule 3.3.1 Authority.  Except as provided in Mississippi Code 43-13-117, Section 3 (2), no 
individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation shall either directly or 
indirectly operate a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility in this state without first 
applying for and receiving a license from the Mississippi State Department for 
Health.  
 
SOURCE:   Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.2 License.   A license, from the Mississippi State Department of Health, is required 
to operate a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility prior to said entity providing 
services to three or more medically dependent or technologically dependent 
children who meet the criteria for admissions as stated in the above definitions 
unless such entity meets the definition/requirement for exemption which reads: 
 
1. A Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, institution or other place operated by the 
federal government or any agency of the federal government are exempt from 
the provisions of these minimum standards. 
 
2. County-operated or municipally operated Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
applying for a licensure under Section 43-13-117, Mississippi Code Annotated, 
are exempt from the payment of licensure fees. Such entities must comply with 
and meet all other requirements of these minimum standards. 
 
3. Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency and by which the 
facility is licensed, shall be used in telephone listings, on stationary, in 
advertisements, etc. 
 
4. Licensee shall not operate at any given time with a capacity greater than the 
number of clients on the face of the license. 
 
SOURCE:   Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
 
Rule 3.3.3    Designation of License.  Separate licenses are required for Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility maintained on separate premises, even though such centers may 
be operated under the same management. A separate distinct license is required to 
distinguish entities providing twelve (12) hour care services verses twenty-four 
<<<PAGE 140>>>
140  
(24) hour services. No Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall co-locate with 
another facility licensed by the Department.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.4 Rules and Regulations. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or 
corporation operating a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility in this state is subject to 
the requirements of Section 43-13-117 and all requirements as outlined in the 
Minimum Standards of Operation for Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facilities. The 
Mississippi State Department of Health has legal authority to promulgate rules 
and regulations.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.5 Application.  Application for a license or renewal shall be made on in writing to 
the licensing agency, on forms provided by the licensing agency, which shall 
contain information that the licensing agency may require. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.6 Fees. The following fees are applicable to Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facilities: 
 
1. Each application for initial licensure or renewal licensure, unless suspended or 
revoked shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the Board, made 
payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health by business check, 
money order, or by electronic means. The fees are not refundable. 
 
2. Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a user fee in an amount 
set by the Board, and made payable to the Mississippi State Department of 
Health by business check, money order, or by electronic means. The fee is non-
refundable.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.7 Name of Facility.  Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency 
and by which the center is licensed shall be used in telephone listings, on 
stationary, in advertising, etc. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.3.8      Capacity.  Licensees shall not operate at any given time with a capacity greater 
than the number of clients on the face of the license.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
<<<PAGE 141>>>
141  
Rule 3.3.9 Initial Licensure. For initial licensure, an applicant shall be in compliance with 
all requirements, as outlined in these regulations, and must submit documents, 
included but not limited to, those outlined below: 
 
1. A completed/signed application, on forms as designated by MSDH. All 
information submitted on the application forms, or by request for additional 
information, shall be accurate and current at the time of filing; 
  
2. A non-refundable application/processing fee in an amount set by the Board and 
made payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, by business check, 
money order, or by electronic means. The fee is non-refundable.  
 
3. A Licensing Fee in an amount set by the Board and made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health by business check, money order, or by 
electronic means. The fee is non-refundable. 
 
4. Certificates/letters of approval from the local zoning authority indicating that 
the location of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility conforms to local zoning 
ordinances, if applicable; 
 
5. Certificates/letters of approval from the local/regional/state Fire Marshal that 
the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility is in compliance with all applicable fire 
safety standards; 
  
6. Evidence that the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility water and sewer systems 
have been approved by the Mississippi State Department of Health; 
 
7. Copy of the Health Inspection report/approval from the MSDH, office of public 
health. 
 
8. Certificate of Occupancy; 
 
9. Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certificate or CLIA 
certificate of waiver. 
 
10. Proof of general and Professional Liability Insurance in the amount of at least 
$300,000.00 including Workman’s Compensation Insurance; 
 
11. Articles of Incorporation, Disclosure of Ownership and Control Information; 
 
12. Proof of financial viability/contingency plan demonstrating evidence that the 
applicant processes assets sufficient to establish and sustain all components of 
a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility  to meet the provisions as outlined in these 
regulations whi le operating and/or during extraordinary circumstances 
including but not limited to audited financial statements, an established line of 
credit issued from a federally insured institution in the amount of at least 
<<<PAGE 142>>>
142  
$100,000.00, a projected twelve (12) month statement of operations and a 
projected first twelve months statement of cash flow. The requesting Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility shall provide evidence of the referenced above review 
in the form of a certifie d affidavit or statement resultant of a review from an 
independent certified public accountant firm.  
 
13.  That the center is located within 20 miles or 30 minutes (whichever is greater) 
of an Emergency Department that has capabilities to handle pediatric 
emergencies; 
 
14. The name of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility’s administrator, manager or 
supervisor, the name and license number of the Medical Director and Director 
of Nursing along with proof of available licensed and supportive personnel who 
will have responsibil ity for any part of the care given to Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility’s clients; as well as proof of ancillary support services such as 
dietary, housekeeping, maintenance and other personnel either directly or 
contractually secured to support the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility on a daily 
basis;   
 
15. The names and titles of personnel who have been affiliated, during the 
preceding five (5) years with any other Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, 
through ownership or employment, and the listing of names and addresses of 
the appropriate Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility for each. This information 
shall be provided for the applicant: administrator, manager or supervisor, and 
all licensed nurses; and 
 
16. Floor sketch or drawing of premises to be licensed, letter of intent and 
functional plan. 
 
17. Lead Testing Reports. The exterior playground shall be soil tested for lead 
contamination; soil samples shall be taken from a minimum of four remote 
locations around the playground and submitted to a certified lead testing 
laboratory for analysis.  If the building was constructed before 1965, a lead 
hazard screen or lead-based paint risk assessment shall be done by an individual 
or company certified as a Lead Risk Assessor by the Mississippi Department of 
Environmental Quality (MDEQ). 
 
18. Asbestos Testing Report.  An asbestos survey shall be performed on all existing 
structures to be converted into a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility to assure 
compliance with Air Emission Regulations for the Prevention, Abatement, and 
Control of Air Contaminates-APC S-1-Section 8 (state regulation) and National 
Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) – 40CFR Part 62, 
Subpart M (federal regulation). 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
<<<PAGE 143>>>
143  
Rule 3.3.10 Approval of Building.  Prior to the issuance of a license, the building must be 
inspected/approved by MSDH, Fire and Life Safety Code Division within Health 
Facilities Licensure and Certification and approved as being in compliance with 
all applicable National Fire Protection Association fire safety code standards, as 
appropriate to this type setting.  
 
SOURCE: Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
  
Rule 3.3.11 Licensure Term.  Each license issued shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) 
months and shall be issued for the licensure period from January 1, of each year 
and shall expire December 31, of the that same year.  Should an entity be 
approved for licensure after the January 1, date for licensure, the licensure date 
shall reflect the approved date of licensure for this center and will be valid until 
December 31, of that licensure year. As with all other centers, a renewal 
applications/documentation pertinent to renewal (see Rule 2.3.9) must be 
submitted to initiate the licensure process for the next January 1, thru December 
31, licensure year.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.3.12  Posting of License. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by in interested person. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.3.13 License Not Transferable. A Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility license is for the 
stated licensee and location as reflected on the license and is not transferable. 
  
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.14 License Renewal.  For renewal, each licensed entity shall submit: 
 
1. A completed and signed renewal application; received on or before 30 days 
prior to the date of expiration;  
 
2. A renewal licensure Fee in an amount set by the Board and made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) by business check, money 
order, or by electronic means. The fee is non-refundable.  
 
3. In a format as requested by MSDH, information designed to capture the entity’s 
provision of services being provided, to include but not be limited to, number 
and acuity of infants/children served, number and types of 
treatments/specialized services provide d, and other information that may be 
useful in determining that services, as outlined in these requirements are 
offered/met; and 
  
<<<PAGE 144>>>
144  
4. Evidence of continued compliance with all building/fire codes as evidence by a 
copy of the annual inspection by the local Fire Marshall of the area/region 
where the center is located; and 
 
5. Proof of General and Professional Liability Insurance in the amount of at least 
$300,000 including Workers Compensation Insurance. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.15 Late Fees. Should all documentation appropriate for license renewal not be 
received by MSDH, Division of Health Facilities Licensure and Certification on 
or prior to the expiration date of the license, a late fee in the amount set by the 
Board, will be assessed and must be submitted payable to Mississippi State 
Department of Health either by business check, money order, or by electronic 
means, prior to the issuance of a license. Should all paperwork necessary for 
renewal not be submitted within 30 days post-expiration of the license, the center 
shall be considered unlicensed and actions taken, as appropriate, to process 
termination of the license; 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.3.16 In the case of a change of ownership or a change in Proprietors that constitutes a 
sale or change of greater that 20% of the assets, the center shall notify the 
Department and submit all Legal documents/information, as requested, to 
document that change of ownership and to confirm/verify the operational 
sustainability of the center. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.17      Duty to Report. The licensed entity shall submit, in writing, to MSDH, Division 
of Licensure and Certification, the following: 
 
1. Change in the administrator, manager/ supervisor, director of nursing services, 
or the medical director within ten calendar days of the occurrence; 
 
2. All fires, explosions, natural disasters, as well as, avoidable deaths or avoidable, 
serious, or life-threatening injuries resultant of such fires, explosions or natural 
disasters shall be reported by telephone to the Life Safety Code and 
Construction Division of the licensing agency by the next working day of the 
occurrence. The licensing agency will provide the appropriate forms to the 
facility which shall be completed and returned within fifteen (15) calendar days 
of the occurrence. All reports shall be complete, thorough, and shall record at a 
minimum the causal factors, date and time of the occurrence, exact location of 
the occurrence, whether inside or outside of the facility, and attached thereto 
shall be all police, fire, and other official reports. 
 
<<<PAGE 145>>>
145  
3. Any incident whereas a child is left alone and unattended, either during the 
hours of operation of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, while on a field trip 
or at an alternate location, by the next working day after the occurrence; 
 
4. Any accident or injury sustained by a child, while the child was under the care 
of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility that required emergency medical 
intervention by the next working day after the occurrence. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.18 Such reports shall contain a clear description of each accident or incident, the 
names of the persons involved, a description of all medical or other services 
provided to those persons, specifying who provided such services, and the steps 
taken, if any, to prevent reoccurrence of such accident or incidents in the future.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.19   Management. All applicants for a license to operate a Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility, whether for initial or for renewal, and the administrator, 
manager/supervisor and the director of nursing services shall: 
 
1. Be twenty-one years of age or older; 
 
2. Be of good moral character; and  
 
3. Have not been convicted or found guilty, regardless of adjudication, in any 
jurisdiction, of any felony involving fraud, embezzlement, fraudulent 
conversion, misappropriation of property, moral turpitude, violence against a 
person or persons, abuse of a vu lnerable adult and/or child; or any act(s) of 
sexual abuse as outlined in Section 45 -33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 1972, 
Annotated. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.20  Evidence of Character and Related History.  As documentation for the 
Department, regarding the requirement for licensure, each applicant(s) for a 
license to operate a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, whether for initial or 
renewal, shall submit together, with their application: 
 
1. Two (2) personal character references and two (2) professional character 
references for the administrator, manager, or supervisor of the Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility, except on renewal if previously provided to the Department; 
 
2. The criminal record, if any, for himself and the manager, supervisor, director of 
nursing services of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, to include the court, 
<<<PAGE 146>>>
146  
date of conviction, the offense, penalties imposed by each conviction, 
regardless of adjudication;  
 
3. Any injunctive or restrictive order or federal or state administrative order 
related to business activity or health care as a result of an action brought by a 
public agency or department; 
 
4. A copy of current agreements entered into with third party providers; and 
 
5. A copy of current agreements with each consultant employed by the center and 
documentation specifying frequency of consultative visits and required written, 
dated reports.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.21    Liability Insurance. Facilities shall obtain and keep in force liability insurance. 
Proof of Professional and General Liability insurance including worker’s 
compensation insurance must be submitted at the time of application. Liability 
insurance must cover legal liability for death, injury, or disability of any human 
being, or for damage of property, with provision for medical, hospital and surgical 
benefits to the injured person, irrespective of the legal disability of the insured, 
when issued as a part of the liability insurance contract.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.22    Denial, Suspension, Revocation of Licensure, Administrative Fines; Grounds. 
  
1. The licensing agency may deny, revoke, and suspend a license and impose an 
administrative fine as provided in section eight (8) of Section 43 -13-117, 
Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated, for violation of any provision of this act, 
or applicable rules. 
 
2. Any of the following actions by the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility or its 
employee is grounds for action by the licensing agency against the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility or its employee: 
 
a. An intentional or negligent act materially affecting the health and safety of 
children in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.   
 
b. A violation of the provisions of the act, or applicable rules. 
 
c. Multiple or repeat violations of this act or of minimum standards or rules 
adopted under this act.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
<<<PAGE 147>>>
147  
Rule 3.3.23      Immediate Revocation of License.  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
              Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, the 
 license and require closure of said healthcare center/institution, including any 
 other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of the children 
 being provided care/services or the health and safety of the public.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117and §41.3.15 
 
Rule 3.3.24 Administrative Fines.  If the licensing agency determines that a Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility is not in compliance with this act, or applicable rules, the 
licensing agency may require that the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility submit a 
corrective action plan that demonstrates a good-faith effort to remedy each 
violation by a specific date, subject to the approval of the licensing agency.  The 
licensing agency may fine a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility or employee found 
in violation of this act, or applicable rules, in the amount not to exceed five 
thousand dollars ($5000.00) in the aggregate.  Should the facility not correct a 
violation by the date agreed upon by the licensing agency, or the failure to comply 
with an approved corrective action plan, is a separate violation for each day that 
the failure continues, unless the licensing agency approves an extension to the 
specific date. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.3.25 Closing of a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility.  Whenever a Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility voluntarily discontinues operation, it shall, at least thirty days 
before the discontinuance of operation, inform each child’s legal guardian of the 
fact and the proposed time of the discontinuance. The licensing agency shall also 
be notified of the same such fact, at least thirty days prior to the date of 
discontinuance of operation.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 4  Provision For Hearing And Appeal Following Denial or Revocation of 
             License. 
 
 Rule 3.4.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency shall provide an opportunity for 
a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in regard to the denial or revocation of a license. 
 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
a license. Upon written request of an applicant or licensee received within ten 
(10) days of the date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date for the 
hearing at which time the applicant or licensee shall have an opportunity for a 
prompt and fair hearing. 
 
<<<PAGE 148>>>
148  
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determinations shall be sent by registered 
mail to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally 
upon the applicant or licensee. 
 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the applicant or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within a thirty (30) day period, appeals to the Chancery Court pursuant 
to Section 43-11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. An additional period of 
time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117  
 
Subchapter 5   Administration and Management 
 
Rule 3.5.1 Licensee. The licensee of each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have full 
legal authority and responsibility for the operation of the facility.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.2  Organizational Structure.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility must be 
organized in accordance with a written table of organization, which describes the 
lines of authority and communication down to the child care level. The 
organization structure must be designed so as to ensure an integrated continuum 
of services to the children. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.3    Designation of Administrator. The licensee of each Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility must designate, in writing, one person who is responsible and accountable 
for the overall management of the facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.5.4  Administrator Designee in the Absence of Administrator.  The facility 
administrator must designate, in writing, a person to be responsible for the facility 
when the administrator is absent from or unavailable to the center for more than 
24 hours. Identification of the administrator’s proxy, as well as, the date and 
duration of substitution shall be entered into the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility’s administrative records. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
  
Rule 3.5.5  Responsibilities of Administrator.  The center administrator must: 
 
<<<PAGE 149>>>
149  
1. Maintain the following written records, and all other records as outlined under 
Subchapter 16, Medical Record of these rules. The records must be kept in a 
place, form, and system in accordance with medical and business practices and 
such records must be available in the facility for inspection by the Department 
during normal business hours; 
 
2. Assure that the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility is administered on a sound 
financial basis consistent with good business practice. There shall be financial 
records and annual budget information including monthly statements of 
operation and Profit and Lo ss statements made available for the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility; 
 
3. Maintain a daily census record, which must indicate the names and number of 
children currently receiving services in the facility.  Census records must be 
maintained and available for review, on the premises, for a period of three years; 
 
4. Maintain a record of all accidents or unusual incidents involving any child or 
staff member that caused, or had the potential to cause, injury or harm to any 
person or property within the center. Such records shall be maintained on the 
premises of the facility and be available to the licensing agency upon request;  
 
5. Maintain a copy of current agreements with third party providers; 
 
6. Maintain a copy of current agreements with each consultant contracted by the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility and documentation of each consultant’s visit 
and required written, dated reports;  
 
7. Assure the maintenance of a personnel record for each employee, which must 
include, at a minimum, a current copy and/or verification of the licensure status 
of professional discipline employed or on contract, the original employment 
application, references , employment history for the preceding five years, if 
applicable; a copy of the job description (acknowledged by employee); 
evidence of a completed criminal history records check (as referenced in these 
regulations) and a copy of all job performance evaluations;  
 
8. Develop and maintain a current job description for each employee; 
 
9. Provide each employee access to written personnel policies governing 
conditions of employment;  
 
10. Conduct annual written job performance reviews that note strengths and 
weaknesses and include plans to correct any job performance weaknesses. 
Performance evaluations must be reviewed with the employee; 
 
11. Assign duties to employees that are consistent with their job descriptions and 
their levels of education, preparation and experience; 
<<<PAGE 150>>>
150  
 
12. Provide necessary qualified personnel and ancillary services to ensure the 
health, safety, and proper care of the child; 
 
13. Develop and implement policies and procedures for infection control and 
quality assurance. These policies and procedure must be included in the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility policy manual. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.6  Organizational Responsibility.  The administrative structure of the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility shall include a policy and procedure manual to assure 
standards for medical and nursing care are met and to assure that the requirements 
as set forth in licensure and certification are maintained. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.7  Resources.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have the following 
documents on the premises and available to staff:  American Academy of 
Pediatrics Red Book, Minimum Standards of Operation for Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility, Policy and Procedure Manual and a Personnel Manual. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.5.8  Personnel Policies and Procedures shall include provisions for at least, a current 
personnel file, position descriptions, employee benefits, policy for attendance, 
overtime, compensatory time, performance evaluations, grievance procedures, 
and termination of employment. Personnel policies must also require that 
employees of the facility are current in their immunizations and undergo a 
medical evaluation to rule out communicable diseases, including but not limited 
to, tuberculosis (TB). Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the 
Centers for Disease Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health 
regarding baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing 
and education.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.9  Orientation of Staff.  A formal orientation shall be required for all Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility employees; staff development programs for all categories 
of personnel shall be held quarterly and documented accordingly. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.10  Policies and Procedures.  Policy and procedure manuals, including but not 
limited to, specifications for therapeutic intervention shall be available for use by 
all staff involved in the care of children. Revisions of the policies and procedures 
<<<PAGE 151>>>
151  
are reviewed and approved quarterly during QA meetings. All forms, policies and 
procedures are reviewed and signed off as approved by the administrator, medical 
director and the director of nursing services, annually to assure that procedures 
conform to prevailing and acceptable treatment modalities.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.5.11  Fingerprint Requirement.  For each employee of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility (see definition of employee), the facility shall submit fingerprints to 
MSDH for the purpose of processing a criminal history records check. The center 
shall develop policies and procedures consistent with this requirement.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 and § 43-11-13 
 
Rule 3.5.12  Criminal History Record Checks. The covered entity shall be required to perform 
a disciplinary check with the professional licensing agency, if any, for each 
employee to determine if any disciplinary action has been taken against the 
employee by the agency, and a criminal history record check on:  
 
1. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care or 
Services;  
 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee shall be permitted 
to provide direct patient care until the results of the criminal history check have 
revealed no disqualifying record or the employee has been granted a waiver. 
Provided the cove red entity has documented evidence of submission of 
fingerprints for the background check, any person may be employed and 
provide direct patient care on a temporary basis pending the results of the 
criminal history record check by any employment offer, con tract, or 
arrangement with the person shall be voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying 
criminal record check.  
 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a guilty 
plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of the 
following crimes which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon 
has not been granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be 
employed at the licensed facility:  
 
a.  Possession or sale of drugs  
 
b.  Murder  
 
c.  Manslaughter  
 
d.  Armed robbery  
 
<<<PAGE 152>>>
152  
e.  Rape  
 
f.  Sexual battery  
 
g. Sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23, Mississippi Code of 1972:  
 
h.  Child abuse  
   
i.  Arson  
 
j.  Grand larceny  
 
k.  Burglary  
 
l.  Gratification of lust  
 
m.  Aggravated assault  
 
n.  Felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult  
 
4.  Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, with 
the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and evidence of 
submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on 
file and maintained b y the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment. The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification 
of the employee’s disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing 
agency and submission and/or completion of the criminal record check, the 
signed affidavit, if applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment.  
 
 5.  The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee applicant 
aggrieved by the employment decision under this subsection to appear before 
the licensed entity’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show mitigating 
circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or employee applicant to 
be employed at the covered entity . The covered entity, upon report and 
recommendation of the hiring officer, may grant waivers for those mitigating 
circumstances, which shall include, but not be limite d to: (1) age at which the 
crime was committed; (2) circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of 
time since the conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work 
history; (5) current employment and character references; and (6) other 
evidence demonstrating that the individual does not pose a threat to the health 
or safety of the patients in the licensed facility.  
 
6.  The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the fingerprints 
a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00).  
 
<<<PAGE 153>>>
153  
7.  Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check reveal 
no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) weeks of 
the notification of no disqualifying, event provide the employee applicant with 
a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the covered entity, or 
his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee applicant’s suitability 
for employment based on his or her criminal history record check. An employee 
applicant may use that letter  for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the Mississippi 
Department of Health without the necessity of an additional criminal record 
check. Any covered entity presented with the letter may rely on the letter with 
respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background and is not required for 
a period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted 
a criminal history record check as required in this subsection.  
 
8.  For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct patient care 
as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal history 
record check.  
 
9. The licensing agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, 
attorneys and representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for 
any employment decision or action taken under this section. The presumption 
of good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil 
action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys and representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegatio n of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 and §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 6  Child/Parent’s Rights.  
 
Rule 3.6.1  Each child shall be treated with consideration, respect, and full recognition of  
                    his/her dignity and individuality. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.6.2  Each child shall receive care, treatment and services which are adequate and 
                   appropriate for his/her therapeutic plan. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.6.3  Parent(s) or legal guardian(s) shall, prior to and upon admission and as needed 
during the period of service to his/her child, receive a written statement of the 
services provided by the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility including those offered 
on an “as needed” basis. They shall also receive a statement of related charges 
<<<PAGE 154>>>
154  
including any charges for services not covered under the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility’s basic per diem rate. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.6.4  Each child’s medical care program shall be conducted discreetly and in 
accordance with the parent’s/guardian’s need for privacy. Personal and medical 
records shall be treated confidentially and shall not be made public without 
written consent of parent(s) or legal guardian(s). 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.6.5  Each child shall be free from mental and physical abuse and also physical and 
                    chemical restraints, unless authorized by a physician according to clear and 
indicated medical requirements. Justification for use, shall include but not be 
limited to, the risks verses benefits for use and shall be documented by the 
physician and maintained as part of the child’s medical record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.6.6  Each parent and/or legal guardian has a right, personally or through others, to 
present grievances to state and local authorities without reprisal, interference, 
coercion or discrimination of the child as a result of the grievance or suggestion.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 7   Admission Procedures 
 
Rule 3.7.1 Admission Procedures. Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have 
policies and procedures governing the admission, transfer, and discharge of 
children. The admission of each child into the Pediatric Nursing Facility shall be 
upon the written orders of the physician and shall be under the supervision of the 
facility administrator or his/her designee, and shall be in accordance with the 
facility's childcare policies and procedures. 
 
1. Aging-in-Place- Considering the fact that an individual was admitted to a Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility prior to his/her twenty-first (21) birth date, the facility may allow 
the individual to age-in-place past the twenty-first birth date, provided: 
 
a. The facility may allow aging-in-place for established residents, not to exceed 
15% of the facility's licensed capacity. 
 
b. The individual continues to be ventilator or otherwise medically dependent; 
thus, requiring the services of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. 
 
<<<PAGE 155>>>
155  
c. The facility is able to provide the needed medical, psychological, and safety 
needs of the resident; and 
 
d. The resident does not present a threat for harm to himself or other children of 
the facility. 
 
2. Transfer of Individuals over the age of twenty-one (21) - An individual(s) currently 
aging-in-place at a teaching hospital in the state may be admitted to a Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility if said individual(s) was admitted to the teaching hospital prior to his/her 
twenty-first (21) birth date, provided subparts b, c, and d above are met.  Additionally, 
any individual(s) that are currently aging in place in a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
out of state that was a citizen of the State of Mississippi at the time of transfer to the out 
of state facility could be transferred to a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility provided 
subparts b, c, and d above are met and a written justification, requesting approval, to the 
licensing agency be submitted along with any supporting documentation requested by the 
licensing agency. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code. Ann. §43-11-13 
 
 
Rule 3.7.2    Justification for Aging-in-Place. Should a facility choose to maintain a resident 
past the twenty-first birth date, the facility must submit a written justification, 
requesting approval, to the licensing agency. The written justification must be 
completed and signed by the Medical Director of the facility and must contain 
documentation reflective that the resident continues to meet the medical necessity 
requirements for such facility, that the facility can continue to meet the resident’s 
needs, as outlined above, and that the resident is not a danger to him/her self or 
others.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.3  Hours of Service.  The hours of operation of a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
shall be 24/7 and must be clearly posted.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.4  Criteria for Admission.  Infants and children considered for admission to the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall be: 
 
1. A child who is less than twenty-one years of age and medically or 
technologically dependent to include, but not be limited to, conditions such 
seizure disorder, chronic lung disorder, malignancy, and heart disease and/or 
complex medical problems requiring continual care, including but not limited 
to, ventilator dependence, supplemental oxygen, I.V therapy, nasogastric or 
gastrostomy feedings, tracheotomy, etc.  
<<<PAGE 156>>>
156  
 
2. Each child admitted to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall be admitted    
under the prescription of the licensed prescribing physician and shall remain    
under the care of the primary care or subspecialist physician for the duration 
of his/her stay at the facility.  Each child placed in the Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility shall have documentation of the physician’s written order 
placed in the child’s medical record. A copy of the order shall be provided to 
the child’s parent(s) or guardian(s). 
 
3. Infants and children considered for admission to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing     
Facility shall be stable for outpatient medical services and shall not, prior to     
admission, present a significant risk of infection to the other children or     
personnel. The medical and nursing directors shall review, on a case-by-case     
basis, any child with a suspected infection to determine appropriateness of     
admission. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.5    Consents.  A consent form outlining the purpose of a Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility, family responsibilities, authorized treatments and appropriate liability 
release and emergency disposition plans shall be signed by the parent(s) and/or 
guardian(s) prior to admission to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. The 
parents and guardians shall be provided a copy of the consent form. 
Confidentiality of Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility’s records shall be maintained 
in accordance with HIPPA requirements.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.6    Protocol of Care. The protocol for care shall be developed under the direction of 
the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility nursing director and shall specify the 
treatment plan needed to accommodate the medical, nursing, psychosocial and 
educational needs of the child and family.  Specific goals for care shall be 
identified.  Plans for achieving the goals shall be determined and a schedule for 
evaluation of progress shall be established. When appropriate, the protocol shall 
include specific discharge criteria. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.7    Protocol Authorization.  The protocol must be signed by the physician, the 
authorized representative(s) of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility and the 
parent(s) or guardian(s) of the child within ten (10) days of initiation of the plan. 
Copies of the protocol shall be given to the parent(s), guardian(s) of the child, the 
child’s primary physician, Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff, and other 
agencies as appropriate.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
<<<PAGE 157>>>
157  
 
Rule 3.7.8  Routine Communications.  Communication with the child’s primary physician 
shall be provided by the nursing director or designee on a monthly or quarterly 
basis, as identified in the plan or at a minimum when there is a change in the 
child’s clinical condition. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.9  Therapies.  Prescribed therapies may be adjusted, in consultation with the child’s 
primary care or subspecialist physician, to accommodate the child’s condition. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.7.10  Pre-admission Planning.  If a child is hospitalized at the time of referral, pre-
admission planning will include the parents and guardians, relevant hospital 
medical, nursing, social services and developmental staff to assure that the 
hospital’s discharge plans will be implemented following placement in the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 8  Medical Director  
 
Rule 3.8.1  Qualifications of a Medical Director.  A physician licensed in accordance with 
the requirements of the Mississippi Board of Medical Licensure, and certified 
by the American Board of Pediatrics or the American Osteopathic Board  
of Pediatrics shall serve as Medical Director of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.8.2  Responsibilities of the Medical Director shall be: 
 
1. Periodic review of services to assure acceptable levels of quality; 
 
2. Maintenance of a liaison role with the medical community; 
 
3. Advisement of the development of new programs and modifications of existing 
programs; 
 
4. Assurance that medical consultation will be available in the Medical Director’s 
absence; 
 
5. Serving on committees as defined and required by these rules and by the 
facility’s policies; 
 
<<<PAGE 158>>>
158  
6. Consultation with the center administrator on the health status of the facility’s 
personnel; 
 
7. Reviewing reports of all accidents and unusual incidents, to but not be limited 
to, medication errors, and identifying to the facility administrator hazards to 
health and safety; and  
 
8. Ensuring the development of policies and procedures for the delivery of 
emergency services and the delivery of regular physician services when the 
child’s attending physician, or his designated alternate is not available. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 9   Nursing Services 
 
Rule 3.9.1    Qualification of the Director of Nursing.  A registered nurse shall serve full- 
 time as the Director of Nursing. The Director of Nursing must have, at a 
minimum, the following qualifications: 
 
1.  Minimum of a baccalaureate degree in nursing; 
 
2. Current unrestricted Mississippi nursing license; 
 
3. Current certification in Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) or Basic 
Cardiac Life Support (BCLS); and 
 
4. Current certification in Pediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) 
 
5. A minimum of five years of employment in a pediatric setting caring for 
medically and/or technologically dependent children or at least three years of 
experience in one of the following specialty settings: pediatric intensive care, 
neonatal intensive care,  pediatric emergency care, Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility or comparable pediatric unit.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.9.2    Responsibilities.  The Director of Nursing Services shall be responsible for the 
day-to-day operations of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, to include but not 
be limited to, the development of and implementation of policies and procedures 
to facilitate effective and safe care and treatment modalities, scheduling of staff, 
coordination of employee and contracted specialized services in accordance with 
each child’s individualized  plan of care, participating in pre-admission screening 
along with other appropriate nursing staff, participating  on the interdisciplinary 
team (IDT) in the development of each child’s plan care, evaluation of all nursing 
services provided to each child; assuring that training and inservices are provided 
<<<PAGE 159>>>
159  
consistent with the treatments/care being provided and the identified weaknesses 
and/or needs of the employee.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.9.3  Registered Nurse Qualifications. Each registered nurse employed by the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have a current unencumbered Mississippi 
nursing license, have at least two years of pediatric specialty care experience with 
emphasis on medically and technologically dependent children and maintain 
current certification in pediatric CPR, pediatric advance life support (PALS) and 
basic first aid. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.9.4  Registered Nurse Responsibilities.  The registered nurse shall be responsible for 
at least the following: 
 
1. The provision of nursing intervention; educational services to increase the 
family’s confidence and competence in caring for the child with special needs; 
assistance to facilitate coping with the effects of chronic illness on the child and 
family and suppo rt effective relationships among siblings and the ill child; 
interventions to foster normal development and psychosocial adaptation; 
 
2. Knowledge of the availability and access requirements to community resources;   
 
3. Participation in the interdisciplinary teams (IDT), as necessary and in the 
interdisciplinary staff meetings regarding the child’s progress. Fostering and 
maintaining collaborative relationship with the interdisciplinary teams; 
 
4. The administration of medication, intravenous infusions, parenteral feedings 
and other specialized treatments; monitoring and documenting the effects of 
medications, therapies and progress in accordance with accepted standards of 
practice; and  
 
5. Knowledge of the competence and scope of practice of other licensed and 
unlicensed personnel and delegation of duties to such personnel within that 
level of competence and scope of practice.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.9.5 Qualifications of Licensed Practical Nurse.   Each licensed practical nurse 
employed by the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have a current 
unencumbered Mississippi nursing license, have at least two years of pediatric 
specialty care experience with emphasis on medically and technologically 
dependent children and current certification in pediatric CPR and basic first aid.  
 
<<<PAGE 160>>>
160  
Rule 3.9.6 Licensed Practical Nurse Responsibilities.  The licensed practical nurse shall 
work under the supervision of the registered nurse and is responsible to provide, 
within their level of competence and scope of practice, direct care to the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility children. 
 
Rule 3.9.7 Qualifications of Direct Care Staff.  Direct care staff shall work under the  
  supervision of the licensed nurse.  If direct care staff are utilized to augment 
  licensed nurse staffing, the direct care staff shall have a minimum of  
  the following qualifications: 
 
1. Two years of experience in a healthcare setting providing care to infants and 
children who are medically or technologically dependent; 
 
2. References documenting skill in the care of infants and children; and 
 
3. Current certification in pediatric CPR and basic first aid. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 10   Staffing 
 
Rule 3.10.1 Ratio Total staffing for nursing services shall be, at a minimum, in the following 
ratios but at no time shall there be less than one (1) staff member of duty per three 
(3) children. If only one (1) staff member is on duty, that member must be a 
registered nurse.  
 
Children Total Staff RN  
RN or LPN 
Direct Care, or Licensed 
Nurse (RN, LPN or 
Respiratory  
Therapist) 
1 1 1   
2-6 2 1 1 1 
7-9 3 1 1 1 
10-12 4 2 1 1 
13-15 5 3 1 1 
16-18 6 3 1 2 
19-21 7 4 1 2 
22-24 8 4 1 3 
25-27 9 4 1 4 
28-30 11 5 1 5 
<<<PAGE 161>>>
161  
31-33 12 5 1 6 
34 -36 13 5 2 6 
37- 39 14 5 3 6 
40-42 15 5 3 7 
43- 45 16 5 4 7 
 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.10.2 If a Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility has more than 45 children, the staffing must 
increase by one staff for every three (3) children, alternating between a direct care 
staff and licensed nurse.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.10.3 Ancillary Professional Staffing.  Although the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
is not required to have the following disciplines on staff, such services may be 
contractual, on a consultant basis, depending on the assessed need of the child. 
 
1.  Resource consultants: 
 
a.  A child development specialist available to serve as a resource for Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility staff and parents of children served who can be 
available to evaluate through use of standardized and non -standardized 
procedures the developmental status of children; 
 
b. A child life specialist who can assist in planning and conducting 
individualized child development and play programs; and who can serve as 
a resource to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff and parents of 
children being served. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.10.4 The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have the following staff, either by 
employment or on a contractual as needed basis:  
 
1. Occupational therapy is the provision of services that addresses the 
developmental or functional needs of a child related to the performance of self-
help adaptive skills, adaptive behaviors, and sensory, motor and postural 
development. Occupational therapy  includes the evaluation and treatment to 
prevent or correct physical and emotional deficits, minimize the disabling 
effects of these deficits, maintain a level of function, acquire a skill set or A 
child life specialist who shall be responsible for at least the following: 
<<<PAGE 162>>>
162  
 
a. Evaluation of child following physician referral to include neuromuscular 
status, developmental level, perceptual motor functioning, need for adaptive 
equipment or appliances, self-care and play; 
 
b. Designing and implementing therapeutic programs to meet the needs of the 
individual child; 
 
c. Maintaining records documenting the therapy program and progress for 
each child as approved by the attending physician; and 
 
d. Participating as part of the child’s IDT team if occupational therapies are a 
part of the child’s plan and serving as a resource for Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility staff and the parents being served. 
 
2. Physical therapy services include the evaluation and treatment of range of 
motion, muscle strength, functional abilities and the use of adaptive and 
therapeutic equipment. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall assure the 
availability of, either by e mployment of contract, a physical therapist who is 
responsible for at least the following: 
 
a.  Evaluation of each child upon physician referral to include neuromuscular 
status, developmental level, gait, posture and adaptive equipment; 
 
b. Designing and implementing therapeutic programs to meet the needs of 
each individual child;  
 
c. Maintaining records documenting the therapy program and progress for 
each child as approved by the attending physician; and 
 
d. Serving as a resource for Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff and parents 
of children served.  
 
e. If physical therapy is an active component in the treatment of the child, the 
physical therapist shall participate as part of the child’s IDT. 
 
3. Respiratory care services include evaluation and treatment related to pulmonary 
dysfunction. Examples are ventilator support, therapeutic and diagnostic use of 
medical gases, respiratory rehabilitation, management of life support systems 
and bronchopulmonary drainage, breathing exercises and chest physiotherapy. 
The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall assure the availability of a licensed 
respiratory therapist when appropriate, to: 
 
a. Evaluation of the respiratory function and needs of the child, make 
recommendations based upon that assessed need;  
 
<<<PAGE 163>>>
163  
b. Provide therapies, as appropriate, per physician orders, 
 
c. Maintain documentation of provided therapies, in accordance with 
physician’s orders and the child’s IDT plan, and the progress of the child 
and/or educational progress of the parents; and 
 
d. Serve as a resource to train staff and parents of the child on the physiology 
of the child’s disease processor respiratory dysfunction and on the 
modalities necessary for care and treatment of the child.  
 
4. Speech language involves the evaluation and treatment of speech -language 
disorders, to include but not be limited to, the evaluation and treatments of 
verbal and written language, articulation, voice, fluency, phonology, 
mastication, deglutition, cognition, and communications. The Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility shall assure that a speech -language pathologist is available, 
either by employment or through a contractual basis on an as needed basis, for 
the: 
      
a. Evaluation of children to include: ability to swallow and feeding, 
respirations, language, speech, communication and play using formal and 
informal test and observations;  
 
b. Designing and implementing individualized therapeutic programs for each 
child, including recommendations for communication devices;  
 
c. Speech-language encounters must be face-to-face, and the speech-language 
pathologist must maintain, in the child’s record, documentation of each 
evaluation, documentation of therapies and progress; and  
 
d. Serving as a resource for the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff and 
parents of children being served. 
 
e. Speech-language visits must be face-to-face encounters.   
 
5. A social worker who is responsible for at least the following: 
 
a. Conducting family psychosocial assessments as requested by the medical 
or nursing director; 
 
b. Counseling, including emotional support and grief resolution as requested 
by the nursing and medical director, or family; 
 
c. Family advocacy and coordination with community resources;  
 
d. Maintaining records and documenting social work interventions;  
 
<<<PAGE 164>>>
164  
e. Conducting home visits and home evaluations as requested by the medical 
director or nursing director; and 
  
f. Serving as a resource for the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff and 
parents of children served. 
 
6. A dietician, who is licensed in the State of Mississippi and currently registered 
with the American Dietetic Association, will be available, at a minimum on a 
consultant basis.  The dietician shall: 
 
a. Conduct a thorough evaluation of each child’s nutritional status, 
preferences, likes and dislikes, upon admission and as needed throughout 
the child’s stay;  
b. Develop and approve menus appropriate to the nutritional needs of the 
children.  Assure that specialty feedings are prepared in accordance with 
physician’s orders, meet the nutritional needs of the child and make 
recommendations, as appropriate;   
c. Document in the clinical record, at least quarterly, an update of the child’s 
nutritional status to include, but not be limited to, weight, alteration in the 
diet, eating modalities, etc.; and 
d. Assure that dietary staff are trained and competent in the preparation and 
service delivery of meals/feedings related to each child’s diet.   
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 11  Developmental Services 
 
Rule 3.11.1 Assessment and Plan.  Each child shall have a functional assessment and an 
individualized family service plan (IFSP) to include developmentally appropriate 
areas. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.2 Developmental Plan.  The child’s IFSP plan shall include specific programs and 
action steps to facilitate developmental progress and shall be reviewed and 
updated per early intervention/early step guidelines. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.3 Incorporation of Plan.  Developmental and educational needs shall be 
incorporated into each child’s protocol for care.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
<<<PAGE 165>>>
165  
Rule 3.11.4 Comprehensive Developmental Program.   The Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility shall provide evidence of a good-faith effort in assuring the development 
of a comprehensive developmental program for each child birth to 3 years old to 
meet the identified developmental needs of the child. The Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility may enter into a contractual relation with the local early 
intervention provider/early steps to assure that these services are met and 
provided accordingly. The child’s IFSP plan shall include: 
 
1. Measurable goals in need areas and/or goals to enhance and normalize 
independent functioning in daily activities and to promote socialization in order 
to minimize difficulties in being assimilated into the home/community  
environment; 
 
2. A description of the child’s strengths and present performance level with 
respect to each goal; 
 
3. Skills areas in priority order; 
 
4. Anticipatory planning for specific areas identified at risk for problems even 
though a specific delay or problem may not be demonstrable. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.5 Scheduled Meetings.  The developmentalist and/or child life specialist shall 
participate in regularly scheduled interdisciplinary staff meetings as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.6 Involvement of Parent and/or Guardian. A program for parent(s) and/or 
guardian(s) shall be provided to prepare parent(s) or guardian(s) to accommodate 
the child’s needs as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.7 Parent/Guardian Education.  The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall assist 
parent(s) and guardian(s) by including them in care-related conferences and 
teaching them how to perform necessary therapies and how to meet the 
developmental and psychosocial needs of the child at home.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.11.8 Referrals.   Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff shall make referrals to 
appropriate resources, facilitate access to community, social, educational and 
financial services, and shall provide assistance to enhance coping skills, 
interpersonal; relationships and family functioning.  
 
<<<PAGE 166>>>
166  
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 12   Educational Services 
 
Rule 3.12.1 Comprehensive Educational Program.  The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
shall provide evidence of a good-faith effort in assuring the development of a 
comprehensive educational program for each school-aged child to meet the 
identified educational needs of the child. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
may enter into a contractual relationship with the local school system to assure 
that these services are met and provided accordingly. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.12.2 Comprehensive Educational IEP Plan.   Each child, after being determined 
appropriate for educational services based on a comprehensive assessment, shall 
have a comprehensive individualized educational plan (IEP). Such plan shall be 
based upon the assessed needs of the child and shall be developed in coordination 
with Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff. If a child is on an IEP, the 
educational teacher /instructor shall participate in the child’s overall IEP and 
review.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.12.3 Space/Supplies for Educational Needs.   The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
shall provide a dedicated room, space or adequate workspace, well lighted and 
equipped with general supplies such as tables, desks, chalkboard/whiteboard, etc. 
to be conducive to such specialized educational learning. The Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility may request parent or the local school system participation in the 
purchase of books, routine schools supplies, etc., necessary for their child’s day-
to-day school activities. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.12.4 Education Incorporated into Child’s Overall IED Plan. For children needing 
or receiving educational instruction, the educational instructor/teacher shall 
participate as part of the interdisciplinary team to assure coordination of the 
child’s care and services with the scheduled educational component of activities. 
The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility will provide an area to post the calendar 
and school related information bulletins. The instructor shall document in the 
child’s school record the progress of the child. A duplicate copy shall be 
maintained on the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility premises. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 13    Nutrition Services  
 
<<<PAGE 167>>>
167  
Rule 3.13.1 Nutritional Services.  A registered dietician shall be available, either full time, 
part time or on a consultant basis, to evaluate the child’s nutritional needs and to 
assure that meal planning and dietary services are provided so as to meet the 
nutritional and dietary needs of each child. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.2 Food Service on Location.  If the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility serves food 
to the children: 
 
a) A Certified Food Service Manager who works under the consulting Registered 
 Dietitian shall be available and responsible for overseeing dietary services. 
 
b)  Menus shall be nutritionally adequate and consistent with the Dietary 
Guidelines for Americans. Foods shall be provided in quantities and meal patterns 
that balance energy and nutrients with the children’s ages, appetites, activity 
levels, special needs, and cultural and ethnic differences in food habits. All 
physician-prescribed meals, snacks, special diets and dietary supplements shall 
meet the daily nutritional requirements of the child as ordered. Substitution of 
foods/snacks, of the same nutritional value, shall be made available should a child 
dislike or refuse a food item. 
 
c) Parents, when possible, shall be involved in the nutritional components of their 
child’s meal.  Menus must be prepared for a minimum of one week in advance 
and shall be posted so that parents/child is aware of foods/snacks served.  Food 
items, texture and consistency should be age and/or needs appropriate. 
Substitutions shall be offered if a child has a dislike of foods prepared. Menus 
shall be maintained on-site for a period of one (1) year.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.3 Documentation of Allergies.  If a child has a specific allergy to foods or is on a 
special diet, Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff shall be notified, and such 
allergies notated as part of the child’s medical record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.4    Timing of Meals.  For infants and toddlers, feedings and/or meals shall be in 
accordance with physician’s orders and/or the routine of the child (if orders 
related to timing are not available). At a minimum, for each twenty-four-hour day, 
three meals and three snacks must be offered.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.5     Furniture/Utensils.  Furniture and Utensils shall be age-appropriate and 
developmentally suitable to encourage children to accept and enjoy mealtime.  
<<<PAGE 168>>>
168  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.6     Dining Experience. The facility shall design the dining area so as to create a 
home-like environment for dining. Caregivers shall encourage positive 
experiences with food and eating.  Caregivers are encouraged to eat with the 
children; however, shall not eat foods outside of the foods served in the facility in 
front of the children.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.13.7 Refrigerated Individual Foods.  Prepared foods shall be kept under refrigeration 
with identifying dates and the child’s name. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 14  Transportation Services 
 
Rule 3.14.1 Transportation Services.  If transportation services are provided by a Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility and prescribed by the primary care or subspecialist 
physician, a procedure delineating personnel and equipment to accompany the 
child shall be included in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility procedure manual. 
The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility policy and procedure shall clearly state, 
regardless of the transportation provision, if the child is to be under the care of the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility is 
responsible for the safety of the children. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.14.2 Restraint During Transport.  All children shall be properly restrained whenever 
they are being transported in a motor vehicle. 
 
1. Every person transporting a child under the age of four (4) in a passenger motor 
vehicle and operated on a public roadway, street or highway, shall provide for 
the protection of the child by properly using a child passenger restraint device 
or system meeting applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards, i.e., child 
safety seat. 
 
2. Every person transporting a child in a passenger motor vehicle operated on a 
public roadway, street or highway, shall provide for the protection of the child 
by using a belt positioned booster seat system meeting applicable federal motor 
vehicle safety standards if the child is at least four (4) years of age, but less than 
seven (7) years of age and measures less than four (4) feet nine (9) inches in 
height or weighs less than sixty-five pounds. 
 
<<<PAGE 169>>>
169  
3. An individual seat restraint must be used for each child, regardless of age, 
height or weight and appropriate for the child’s condition. The use of an 
       individual seat restraint for two or more children is not allowed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.14.3 Contract Transportation.  Should the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility provide 
or contract for transportation, it is incumbent upon the center to assure that: 
 
1. All drivers are appropriately licensed; 
 
2. All vehicles used for the transportation of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
children have current safety inspection stickers, licenses (vehicle tag) and 
registration; 
 
3. Insurance adequately covers the transportation of children; 
 
4. A daily sign-in sheet or log is maintained of the children being transported and 
include the to/from location; 
 
5. A trained medical escort will accompany all children during transport. An 
additional medical escort shall be required for every six children. The driver of 
the bus/vehicle cannot serve as a medical escort; 
 
6. Children board and leave from the curbside of the street and/or safely 
accompanied to the destinations; 
 
7. Upon arrival via transportation to the child’s final destination care of child is 
relinquished to either a parent/guardian or designated caregiver as authorized 
by the parent or guardian. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 15     Inservice Training for Staff and Parents and Guardians 
 
Rule 3.15.1 Inservice Training.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall develop staff 
and parent/guardian orientation and training programs. These programs include 
but are limited to the following: 
 
1. Quarterly staff development / inservice programs appropriate to the category of 
personnel will be conducted to maintain quality patient care; All staff 
development programs will be documented; to include date/time, trainer, listing 
of attendees and a summary of the program content/training. Thi s 
documentation shall be maintained for a period of three years, unless pertinent 
to a specific child’s care; then reference to the training shall be maintained as 
part of the child’s record as long as the child receives the service of the facility.  
<<<PAGE 170>>>
170  
 
2. Annual pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation review and update;  
 
3. New hire orientation to acquaint the employee with the philosophy, 
organization, program, practices and goals of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility; 
 
4. Parent orientation to acquaint the parent/guardian to the Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility, including philosophy of the center, goals, expectations, not 
only of staff/caregivers but also of parents (such as expectation that parent 
and/or guardian participate in the IEP) and services that can be offered and/or 
expected; 
 
5. Parent/guardian trainings shall be documented in the child’s medical record. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 16   Medical Record 
 
Rule 3.16.1  Medical Records.   A medical record shall be maintained for each child. The 
medical record shall contain at least the following: 
 
1. All details of the referral, admission, correspondence and papers concerning the 
child; 
 
2. Entries in the medical record shall be in ink, shall be signed by the authorized 
personnel, to include name and title/discipline, and shall include at least the 
following: 
 
a. Physician’s orders; 
 
b. Flow charts of medications and treatments administered; 
 
c. Concise accurate information and initialed case notes reflecting progress 
toward protocol of care goals achievement or reasons for lack of progress; 
 
d. Documentation of nutritional management and special diets, as appropriate; 
 
e. Documentation of nursing, physical, occupational, speech, respiratory and 
social service assessments, goals, treatment plans, documentation of each 
treatment, to include date, time and therapy/treatments provided and 
progress of the child; 
 
f. An individualized protocol of care developed within ten (10) working days 
of admission and revised, as necessary, to include recommended changes in 
<<<PAGE 171>>>
171  
the therapeutic plan. The disposition to be followed in the event of 
emergency situations shall be specified in the plan of care; 
 
g. Medical history to include allergies and special precautions; 
 
h. Immunization record; 
 
i. Quarterly reviews of the protocol of care to update the plan in consultation 
with other professionals involved in the child’s care; 
 
j. A discharge order, written by the primary care or subspecialist physician, 
shall be documented and entered in the child’s record. A discharge 
summary, which includes the reason for discharge, shall also be included. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 17 Infection Control 
 
Rule 3.17.1  Infection Control Procedures.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall 
have written infection control procedures to include at least the following: 
 
1. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall contain an isolation room with one 
large glass area for observation of the child. Isolation procedures shall be used 
to prevent cross -contamination. The room shall be equipped with emergency 
outlets and equipmen t as necessary to provide care to the child. A bathroom 
accessible to the isolation room but separate from the other Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility’s rooms is required. Procedures must address that all 
equipment must be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized  when brought into the 
isolation room and upon removal from the room; 
 
2. All cribs and beds shall be labeled with the individual child’s name. Linens are 
to be maintained clean and in good repair and shall be removed for laundering 
whenever soiled or needed; however, laundering of all linens shall occur, at a 
minimum, on a weekly basis; 
 
3. Antibacterial soap and disposable paper towels shall be maintained at each sink 
and lavatory. Policy shall address that staff shall wash their hands between each 
treatment and care interaction with a child for which the hands may become 
contaminated/soiled;  
 
4. Children suspected of having a communicable disease, which may be contacted 
through casual contact, as determined by the facility’s medical director, shall 
be isolated; the parent(s) shall be notified of the condition; and the child shall 
be removed from t he Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility as soon as possible. 
When the communicable disease is no longer present; as evidenced by a written 
<<<PAGE 172>>>
172  
physician’s statement, the child may return to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing 
Facility; and 
 
5. Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility staff suspected of having a communicable 
disease shall not return to the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility until all signs 
and symptoms which relate to the communicable disease are no longer evident, 
as evidenced by a written physician’s statement.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 18 Quality Assurance 
 
Rule 3.18.1 Quality Assurance Program.  The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have: 
 
1. A quality assurance program and will conduct quarterly reviews of The 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility’s medical records for at least one-half (1/2) 
of the children served by The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility at the time of 
the quality assurance review.  
 
2.  The quality assurance review will be conducted by, at a minimum, two 
members of the quality assurance committee.  The quality assurance 
responsibilities shall rotate among the quality assurance committee at least on 
an annual basis.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.18.2 Quality Assurance Review.  Each quarterly quality assurance review shall 
include: 
 
1. A review of the protocols in each child’s Protocol of Care to assure that it 
clearly reflects the assessed needs of the child, to include but not be limited to, 
the evaluation, goals/expectation, treatment modalities and care provided, by 
each professional discipline serving the child; 
 
2. A review of the steps, process, and success in achieving the goals; 
 
3. Identification of goals not being achieved as expected, reasons for lack of 
achievement and plans to promote goal achievement; 
 
4. When a child’s clinical status changes, either improvement or decline, that the 
protocol of care is revised to accommodate the child’s change in status as 
evidence by revised professional assessments and re-formulation of goals; 
 
5. Within ten days of the review, the quality assurance committee will meet, 
discuss and ratify the report. Within fifteen days of the review, the quality 
<<<PAGE 173>>>
173  
assurance committee shall furnish copies of its report to the Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility medical and nursing directors. 
 
6. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall develop a corrective action plan for 
each area in which the facility failed to meet the established expectations and 
goals and shall assure implementation of measures, as appropriate, for 
correction of any defic ient area.  Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
management, to include the medical director and the director of nursing, shall 
sign the quality assurance report indicating awareness of the deficient findings 
and shall insure that measures are put into place to correct any deficient practice 
and/or to prevent the reoccurrence of any such practice.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 19 Equipment 
 
Rule 3.19.1 Equipment.  Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall maintain: 
 
1.  An age and developmentally appropriate environment including but not 
limited to furnishings, equipment, adaptive devices and indoor/outdoor 
therapeutic play/educational equipment and supplies, etc.; 
 
2. Each Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall provide safety, medical and 
emergency equipment as described below. All equipment shall be maintained 
in a safe, usable and sanitary condition. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.19.2 Crib Standards.  Each full-size infant crib shall meet the construction standards 
as established in Federal Regulations 16 CFR 1219 or its successor regulation. 
Each non-full-size infant crib shall meet the construction standards as established 
in Federal Regulations 16 CFR 1220 or its successor regulations. Pediatric 
hospital beds with rails, age appropriate elevated cots or toddler beds are 
permissible in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. The Pediatric Skilled 
Nursing Facility shall have documentation/specifications that cribs, beds and cots 
used in the facility meets the stated federal construction and/or child safety 
standards as applicable. The use of stackable cribs is prohibited. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.19.3 Safety equipment.  The following items of safety equipment shall be available on 
the premises:  
 
1. Fire Code Items: extinguishers, alarms, smoke detectors as required by “Life 
Safety Code” (NFPA 2000 Edition, at a minimum) which references, but is not 
limited to: 
<<<PAGE 174>>>
174  
 
a. Circuit interrupters; 
 
b. Flush door openers; 
 
c. Child proof latches on all closets, cabinets; 
 
d. Straps on all highchairs, swings, infant seats; 
 
e. Locks on storage cabinets housing hazardous/poisonous materials; 
 
f. Integral child proof safety outlets or electrical outlet covers. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.19.4 Medical Equipment/Supplies. The following items at a minimum, shall be 
available on the premises: 
 
1. Suction machines -one per child requiring daily suctioning plus one 
suctioning machine for emergency use; 
 
2. Double lockable narcotic cabinet; 
 
3. Mechanical percussors and hand percussors, as prescribed; 
 
4. Oxygen-in two portable tanks in storage carts (one with low flow, one with 
high flow regulator), two Oxygen concentrators (one with low flow, one 
with high flow regulator) or piped in with the appropriate tubing, 
neonate/infant, pediatric and adult manual resuscitation devices with masks 
to accommodate faces and tracheotomies; 
 
5. Ventilator with provisions for mixing of gases to prescribed oxygen 
concentration as specifically prescribed shall be available per child 
requiring mechanical ventilation in the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility; 
 
6. Pulse oximeter with supplies;  
 
7. Electronic Blood Pressure machine (Dinamap); 
 
8. First Aid supply kit; 
 
9. Thermometers-excluding glass thermometers, manual 
sphygmomanometers, stethoscopes, otoscopes, and ophthalmoscopes; 
 
10. Apnea monitoring supplies-belts, leads to apply to monitors brought from 
home; and  
<<<PAGE 175>>>
175  
 
11. Disposable supplies, to include but not be limited to, gloves, scissors, and 
other disposable equipment needed by the child or by staff in the care of the 
child, shall be on hand at the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, as needed. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.19.5 Emergency Equipment and Supplies.  At least the following items of 
emergency equipment and supplies shall be available on the premises: 
 
1. An emergency generating system with adequate generating power to 
maintain medical equipment and adequate HVAC to operate the Pediatric 
Skilled Nursing Facility in the case of power failure; 
 
2. Basic emergency equipment, including but not limit to:  
 
a. Airways - in a range of sizes appropriate for the children served; 
 
b. Suction catheters-in a range of sizes as necessary to meet the needs of 
each child served;  
 
c. Pediatric manual resuscitators - self-inflating, with preemie, infant and 
pediatric mask (and adult resuscitators/mask available, if older, more 
developed children are accepted); 
 
d. Pediatric AED device; 
 
e. Child oxygen mask; 
 
f. Infant oxygen mask; 
 
g. Oxygen regulator with mist bottle and heating element; 
 
h. Flashlight with extra batteries; 
 
i. Stethoscope; 
 
j. Feeding tubes – in a range of appropriate sizes for the children being 
served; 
 
k. Disposable syringes, needles with size needles appropriate for the 
pediatric population and other children being served; 
 
l. Intravenous catheters, angio-catheters and scalp vein needles in a range 
of appropriate pediatric sizes (sizes as appropriate for each child being 
served); 
<<<PAGE 176>>>
176  
 
m.  Tourniquets; armboards for preemie, infant and children being served,  
IV starting supplies, various sizes of adhesive tape; 
 
n. Two-way stopcocks; 
 
o. Two electrical outlet adapters for three-prong outlets; 
 
p. Betadine preps and alcohol supplies. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.19.6 Fluids/Medications. Basic drugs and solutions shall be on-site, available and 
accessible to medical/nursing staff, at all times: 
 
1. Epinephrine ampule - 2 each of 1:1000 and 1:10,000;  
 
2. Dextrose- 1 each of a) 25% solutions and b) 50% solutions 
 
3. Activated Charcoal (1) 
 
4. Sterile Water- 2 vials 
 
5. Normal Saline- 2 vials 
 
6. Intravenous fluids of Dextrose 5% and 10% in water, Dextrose 5% in 
Lactated Ringers, Normal Saline---500 cc/bag (2 each)  
 
7. Heparin 10 units – 2 vials, Heparin 100unit – 2vials 
 
8. Diphenhydramine (Benadryl 50mg/ml) – 1vial 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 20    Physical Environment 
 
Rule 3.20.1 General.   Every facility/institution subject to these minimum standards shall be 
housed in a safe building which contains all the facility required to render the 
services contemplated on the application for license. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.2 Codes.  The term “safe”, in Rule 2.20.1 above, shall be interpreted to mean in 
compliance with the requirements of the codes, standards, and guidelines 
recognized by this agency at the time of construction, and are incorporated by 
reference to be part of these minimum standards. 
<<<PAGE 177>>>
177  
 
1.   For any existing construction, as of the date of this standard, shall meet, at a 
minimum, NFPA, Life Safety Code, 2000 Edition. In the event of the 
construction of a new Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility or substantial 
modification of an existing facility, any subsequent edition of NFPA, Life 
Safety Code may be used, provided the licensing agency approve the use of 
such edition and that all construction and/or modifications meet the 
requirements of the approved edition.  
 
2.   Additional Codes. Regulations, Standards and Guidelines as required by the  
local authority having jurisdiction; should multiple documents have the same 
criterion, the most stringent will apply. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.3  Site / Environment.  For new construction, the proposed site of a facility must be 
      approved by the licensing agency. Factors to be considered in approving a site, in 
            addition to the above, may be convenience to medical and hospital services,  
            approved water supply and sewage disposal, public transportation, community 
            services, and the services of an organized fire department. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.4  Location. All facilities established or constructed after the adoption of these 
regulations shall be located so that they are free of undue noise, smoke, dust, foul 
odors, etc. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.5    Occupancy.  No part of the facility may be leased, rented, or used for any other  
           purpose not related to the operation of the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.6  Zoning Restrictions. The locations of a center shall comply with all local zoning 
ordinances.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.7 Access.  Institutions located in rural areas shall be served by good roads which can 
be kept passable at all times.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.8  Building Classification. A Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility building shall be 
  constructed in accordance with NFPA 220, Standard on Types of Building  
<<<PAGE 178>>>
178  
Construction.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.9  Structural Soundness and Repair.  The building shall be structurally sound, free 
of leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at sufficient intervals 
to be reasonably attractive, inside and out.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.10  Floors. All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks and be 
                     finished so that they can be easily cleaned. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.11  Floor Levels. All differences in floor levels within the building shall be  
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) risers, ramps, or inclines, and 
shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.12  Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines shall not exceed one (1) foot of 
rise in twelve (12) feet of run, shall be furnished with a non-slip floor, and  
                       shall be provided with handrails on both sides. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
            
 Rule 3.20.13  Walls.  All walls shall be of sound construction with an acceptable 
              surface and shall be maintained in good repair.  Generally, the walls  
            should be painted a light color. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
             
Rule 3.20.14  Handrails.  Handrails shall be installed on both sides of the corridors and  
             hallways used by residents, and shall be installed per current edition of 
            the DOJ’s ADA Standards for Accessible Design. 
           
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.15  Ceilings. 
 
1.   All ceilings shall be of sound construction with an acceptable surface and 
shall be maintained in good repair.  Generally, the ceilings should be painted a 
light color. 
 
<<<PAGE 179>>>
179  
2.   Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least eight (8) feet 
except that a height of seven (7) feet and six (6) inches may be approved for 
corridors or toilets and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed.  
Exception may be made for existing facilities. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117        
 
Rule 3.20.16   Windows.   All areas where children are taught, or play shall have outside 
 exposure by windows, clerestories, or skylights providing: 
 
1. natural daylight; 
 
2. a view of the exterior environment; and 
 
3.   shall not have any portion located below grade. 
           
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.17  Fire Safety/Supervised Automatic Sprinkler System/Fire Alarm.  All ediatric  
  Skilled Nursing Facility shall be protected throughout by a supervised automatic  
  Sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current edition of NFPA 13,  
  Installation of Sprinkler Systems and a fire alarm system in accordance with the 
 current edition of NFPA 72. 
           
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.18  Fire Extinguishers. All Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall be equipped with  
            fire extinguishers in accordance with NFPA 10.   
           
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.19  Smoke Detectors. All Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall be equipped with  
  and approved smoke detection system. 
           
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
   
Rule 3.20.20    Water Supply, Plumbing and Sewerage.   The water supply and    
sewerage disposal shall be approved by the local county health    
department and/or the Division of Environmental, Mississippi State Department 
of Health.  No system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage,    
garbage, or refuse disposal shall be installed nor any such existing system 
materially altered or extended until complete plans and specifications for the 
installation, alteration, or extension have been so approved and submitted to the 
licensing agency for review and final determination. 
          
 SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
<<<PAGE 180>>>
180  
 
Rule 3.20.21  Water Supply.   
 
1.   All water shall be obtained from a public water supply. 
 
2.   Water under pressure sufficient to operate fixtures at the highest point during 
maximum demand periods shall be provided.  Water under pressure of at least 
fifteen (15) pounds per square inch shall be piped to all sinks, toilets, 
lavatories, tubs, showers, and other fixtures requiring water.  
 
3.   It is recommended that the water supply into the facility be obtained from two 
(2) separate water lines, if possible. 
 
4.   A dual hot water supply shall be provided.  The temperature of hot water to 
lavatories and bathing facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifteen (115) 
degrees Fahrenheit, nor shall hot water be less than one hundred (100) degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
          
 SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.22  Supply Piping.  Piping within the institution shall be in accordance with  
  adopted local codes.  Use of any device or installation configuration which 
could cause contamination of the supply through back siphonage or cross  
connections is strictly prohibited. 
          
 SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.23 Sewerage Disposal.  
 
1. There shall be installed within the facility a properly designed waste  
disposal system connecting to all fixtures to which water under pressure is 
piped. 
 
2. All liquid and human waste, including floor-wash water and liquid waste from 
refrigerators shall be disposed of through trapped drains into a public sewer 
system where such system is available. 
 
3. In localities where a public sanitary sewer is not available, liquid and human 
waste shall be disposed of through trapped drains into sewerage disposal 
system approved by the local county health department and/or the Mississippi 
State Department of Health. 
         
 SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.24  Plumbing Fixtures.  For toddler toilet rooms, the fixtures shall be toddler- 
  sized units;   
<<<PAGE 181>>>
181  
 
 SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.25  Emergency Electrical Supply. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have 
a Level I EES (Essential Electrical System) in accordance with NFPA, Standard 
for Emergency and Standby Power Systems.    The facility shall maintain an 
emergency electrical generator, of sufficient size and caliber, to make life-
sustaining equipment operable in case of power failure and to support the daily 
function of the facility, to include but not be limited to, lighting, heating and air 
conditioning. Emergency outlets shall be made available in all rooms/areas, as 
appropriate, to assure uninterrupted operation of each child’s specialized 
equipment. The facility shall conduct and document operational testing of the 
equipment monthly. Documentation of such testing/maintenance shall be 
maintained on-site for a period of three years.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.26  Emergency Lighting. Emergency Illumination Levels Shall Be Per Section 7.9 of 
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.27  Thermal Comfort/Temperature.  A draft free seasonally appropriate  
  temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit to 78 degrees Fahrenheit shall be 
maintained.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.20.28 Telephone Communications.  There shall be not less than one telephone in the 
Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility and such additional telephones as necessary to 
summon help in the event of fire or other emergency. The telephone shall be listed 
under the official name of the facility.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
        
Rule 3.20.29 Programmatic Design. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, at a minimum, 
shall include the following programmatic design elements:  
 
1. Quiet rooms;  
 
2. Nutritional and food prep area;  
 
3. Age appropriate toileting facilities; 
 
4. Indoor and outdoor recreational exercise play areas; 
 
<<<PAGE 182>>>
182  
5. Treatment room(s)with adequate storage for needed supplies and a medication 
prep area; 
 
6. Isolation room (s); 
 
7. Clean and dirty storage areas; 
 
8. Janitorial closet(s);  
 
9. Biohazard closet;  
 
10. Therapy/education/activity learning lab area; 
 
11. Laundry area, to include but not be limited to, a separate area for clean and dirty 
laundry and adequate space for folding of clothes;  
 
12. Staff area;  
 
13. Reception area;  
 
14. Administrative office(s); 
 
15. Separate guest and child entrances; 
 
16. Secured medication room / storage area;  
 
17. A fully functional commercial-grade kitchen, dining room area; and 
 
18. A designated secured area /room designated for medical records storage. 
      
Rule 3.20.30   Required Areas / Rooms.  As a minimum, the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility 
shall include the following programmatic design areas sized as required to  
  accommodate the Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility census and all applicable  
  codes/regulations, but in no instance shall they be less than indicated below: 
 
1. Bedrooms. Facilities shall make efforts to design and decorate the bedrooms 
so as to create a home-like environment. Bedrooms of children shall be 
grouped in accordance with the child’s age group. Each child shall have a 
private room, unless such instances as siblings; whereas they wish to share a 
room.  For single bedrooms, there shall be a minimum of 80 square feet and 
furniture shall be age-appropriate. In the case of a shared bedroom, as 
referenced herein, there shall be a minimum of 100 square feet. Each bedroom 
shall, at a minimum, contain a bed, (crib if appropriate), dresser, mirror, table 
and a chair. In the case of a shared room, privacy curtains or a mechanism to 
assure privacy must be provided;  
 
<<<PAGE 183>>>
183  
2. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall have age-appropriate toileting 
facilities with separate facilities for toddler and school-age children, as well as 
a shared tub (as a minimum); 
 
3. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall provide an indoor 
recreational/exercise/play area at the rate of 50 square feet minimum per 
licensed child; 
 
4. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall provide an outdoor  
Recreational / exercise / play area, directly adjoining the facility, that 
encompassing, at a minimum, 450 square feet, enclosed with a 6-foot privacy 
fence and that has a gate opening onto a non-hazardous exterior area. 
Playground play surface and equipment shall meet the standards and 
guidelines of the most current edition of the Public Playground Safety 
Handbook published by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. 
 
5. Kitchen.  The facility shall provide a commercial-grade kitchen that meets the 
standards of NFPA 96, with a food preparation area of not less than of not less 
than ten square feet per bed (for a 60 bed facility) that is designed to permit 
orderly and sanitary handling and processing of food; that avoids 
overcrowding and congestion of operations, provides at least three feet 
between work areas, and has a height of at least eight (8) feet. Commercial 
and/or institutional ranges, freezers units, dishwashers, ice machines, mixers, 
and other equipment as may be needed shall be present, as well as adequate 
numbers of pots, pans, silverware, glassware and dishes. Hand washing 
lavatories shall be conveniently located throughout the department, be 
equipped with hot and cold water, soap dispenser, a supply of soap, and 
disposable towels.  The use of a common towel is prohibited. Hands shall not 
be washed in sinks where food is prepared or where utensils are cleaned. 
 
a. Commercial of institutional dishwashing equipment shall be used. The 
dishwashing area shall be separated from the food preparation area. If 
sanitation is to be accomplished with hot water, a minimum temperature of 
one hundred eighty (180) degrees Fahrenheit shall be maintained during 
the rinse cycle. An alternate method of use of chemicals may be provided 
if sanitizing standards of the Mississippi State Department of Food Code 
Regulations are observed.  
 
b. Adequate counter space for stacking soiled dishes shall be provided in the 
dishwashing area at the most convenient place of entry from the dining 
room, followed by a disposal with can storage under the counter. There 
shall be a pre-rinse sink, then the dishwasher and finally a counter or drain 
for clean dishes. 
  
6. Commercial Laundry. The facility shall have laundry facilities unless 
commercial laundries are used. Laundry equipment shall be the type to 
<<<PAGE 184>>>
184  
adequately perform the laundry needs of the facility. Provisions shall be 
made for proper mechanical ventilation of the laundry. Provisions shall be 
made to prevent the recirculation of air through the heating and air 
conditioning systems. Adequate lint traps shall be provided for driers. When 
laundry chutes are provided, they shall be a minimum of two (2) feet, and 
they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and drain.  
 
7. Janitor closets.  The facility shall provide janitor closets sufficient to meet the 
needs of the facility. Each shall contain a mop-cleaning sink and be large 
enough to store house cleaning supplies and equipment. A separate janitor 
closet area and equipment should be provided for the food service area. Each 
shall be kept clean and orderly.  
 
8. Toilet Rooms. Adequate toileting facilities shall be provided to accommodate 
the needs of the residents and staff. Floors, ceilings, walls and fixtures of all 
toilet rooms shall be kept clean, in good repair and free of objectionable 
odors. The room shall be kept free of an accumulation of rubbish, cleaning 
supplies, toilet articles, etc.  
 
9. Refrigeration Facilities. Adequate refrigeration facilities, automatic in 
operation, for the storage of perishable foods shall be provided. Where 
separate refrigeration can be provided, the recommended temperatures for 
storing perishable foods (32) to forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit for meat and 
dairy products, and forty (40) to forty-five (45) degrees Fahrenheit for fruit 
and vegetables. If it is impractical to provide separate refrigeration, the 
temperature shall be maintained at forty-one (41) degrees Fahrenheit. All 
refrigerators shall be provided with a thermometer.  Facilities with more than 
twenty-four (24) beds shall have commercial or institutional type 
refrigeration.  
 
10. Employee Toilet Facilities. Toilet facilities with lockers shall be provided for 
employees. Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in which food 
is prepared, stored, displayed or served, or into any room in which utensils 
are washed or stored. Toilet rooms shall be well lighted and ventilated. Each 
lavatory shall be equipped with hot and cold water, soap dispensers, a supply 
of soap, and disposable towels.  The use of a common towel is prohibited.   
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117  
 
Rule 3.20.31   Fire Safety.   No facility shall be licensed until it conforms to the safety 
regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and protection of fire, as 
well as, for protection of life and property against fire. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated § 43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 21  Construction References  
<<<PAGE 185>>>
185  
`  
 Rule 3.21.1     Mandatory References.  The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall  
  comply with the requirements and guidelines of the following references: 
  
1. Mississippi Code of 1972, Chapter 13 of Title 43 Public Health; 
 
2. NFPA 101, Life Safety Code; National Fire Protection Association, Chapter 1 
through 10 (General), AND Chapter 20, (New Ambulatory Health Care 
Occupancy), including all referenced standards and publications; 
 
3. NFPA 220, Standard on types of Building Construction, National Fire 
Protection Association; 
 
4. NFPA 241, Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration, and 
Demolition Operations; National Fire Protection Association; 
 
5. NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code; National Fire Protection 
Association; 
 
6. NFPA 70, National Electric Code, National Fire Protection Association; 
 
7. NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, National Fire 
Protection Association; 
 
8. NFPA 10, Standards for Portable Fire Extinguishers; National Fire Protection 
Association; 
 
9. NFPA 96, Standards for Ventilation, Control and Fire Protection of 
Commercial Cooking Operations, National Fire Protection Association; 
 
10. ANSI/ASHRAE/ASHE Standard 170, Ventilation of Health Care Facilities, 
and its addenda; American National Standards Institute/American Society of 
Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers/American Society for 
Healthcare Engineering; and the  
 
11. ANSI A117.1, Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities; American 
National Standards Institute/American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
 Subchapter 22   Submission of Construction Plans and Specifications 
 
Rule 3.22.1    Submission of Plans and Specifications.  Construction shall not be started for 
any institution subject to these standards (whether new or remodeling/renovations 
or additions to an existing licensed hospital) until the plans and specifications for 
such construction or remodeling have been submitted to the Licensing Agency in 
<<<PAGE 186>>>
186  
writing and its approval of the changes given in writing. Any contract 
modifications which affects or changes the function, design or purpose of the 
facility shall be submitted to and approved by the licensing agency prior to the 
beginning of work set forth in any contract modification. 
 
1. Exception: Foundation changes made necessary by unanticipated conditions, 
or any conditions which present a hazard to life or property if not immediately 
corrected.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.22.2 Plan Submissions.  Plans and specifications for any substantial construction or 
remodeling should be prepared by competent architects and engineers licensed to 
practice in the state and who assume responsibility for supervising the construction. 
The following plans shall be submitted to the Licensing Agency for review:  
 
1.  Preliminary Plans - To include schematics of buildings, plot plans showing size 
and shape of entire site, existing structures, if any, streets and location and 
characteristics of all needed utilities, floor plans of every floor dimensioned and 
with proposed use of each room or area shown. If for additions or remodeling, 
provide plan or of existing building showing all proposed alterations, outline 
specifications to include a general description of the construction, type of 
finishes, and type of heating,  ventilating, plumbing and electrical systems 
proposed.  
2.  Final Working Drawings and Specifications - Complete and in sufficient detail 
to be the basis for the award of construction contracts.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.22.3 Governing Board Approval for Plans  Submission.  All plans submitted for 
review must be accompanied in their first submission by an order of the governing 
board indicating the type and scope of license to be applied for. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
  
Rule 3.22.4 Time Limit of Plan Approval.    Plans receiving approval of the Licensing Agency 
upon which construction has not begun within six (6) months following such 
approval must be resubmitted for approval.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.22.5 Approval for Waste Water/Sewer Connectivity. In addition to submission to the 
licensing agency, plans must be submitted to other regulatory entities, such as the 
County Health Department, etc., for approval of proper water/sewer 
connectivity/facilities prior to starting construction.  
<<<PAGE 187>>>
187  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.22.6 Approval for Occupancy.  Upon completion of construction, an inspection shall 
be made by the Licensing Agency and approval given prior to occupying the 
building or any part thereof. The state and county health departments shall have 
access to the job site during regular business hours and shall conduct construction 
progress inspections as deemed necessary by the agency.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.22.7  Construction Close -Out Documents.   At the time of the final inspection, the 
following documentation shall be provided to the State Agency: 
  
1. A Letter from the Architect of Record attesting that he/she supervised or 
directed the supervision of all phases of the construction and that all work was 
performed in compliance with approved plans; 
 
2. A copy of the Certificate of Occupancy or statement of approval from the local 
building official permitting occupancy of the facility for its intended use. In the 
absence of a local building authority, approval of a local fire authority having 
jurisdiction shall be provided. If the facility is owned by the State of Mississippi 
and subject to the State Bureau of Buildings Grounds and Real Estate 
Management, approval of occupancy shall be coordinated between the state 
agencies involved;  
 
3. The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility, providing in-house dietary services shall 
provide a current copy of the Certificate or other Installer authority issued by 
the manufacture of the engineered automatic range exhaust hood and duct fire 
suppression system installed. The installer must verify, in writing, that the staff 
have been trained in its use or that such training will be provided, and that 
operation and service manuals have been provided to the owner; 
 
4. A copy of the fire alarm systems operational test prepared by the 
installer/vendor.  This test must be documented and equivalent to the 
acceptance test required by NFPA 72, the National Fire Alarm Code, Chapter 
7, “Initial Acceptance Testing”.  When the em ergency forces notification 
requirement is provided by a private central station, a current copy of the 
provider’s listing (i.e. UL, FM, etc.) must be attached; 
 
5. A copy of the automatic fire sprinkler installer’s Contractor’s Materials and 
Test Certificate, for part A (above ground piping) and/or Part U (underground 
piping); 
 
<<<PAGE 188>>>
188  
6. Provide verification that all backflow prevention devices, required by local 
authority, serving sprinkled buildings are equipped with valve supervision 
(tamper switches) electronically interconnected to the fire alarm system; 
 
7. Evidence that an installation acceptance test was performed on the emergency 
generator by qualified technicians in accordance with NPFA 110, Standards for 
Emergency and Standby Power Systems, Section 5 -13, “Installation 
Acceptance”; 
 
8. Evidence that the electrical grounding system and the power system performs 
within the limits described in NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities, Section 3 -3-3, 
“Performance Criteria and Testing”; 
 
9. Certification of the fire alarm equipment and installation to be in accordance 
with applicable section of NFPA 70, The National Electric Code, and NFPA 
72, The National Fire Alarm Code; and  
 
10. Test certificates for all interior combustible wall and ceiling finishes based on 
the test method described in NFPA 255, Standard Method of Testing Surface 
Burning Characteristics of Building Materials.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 23   Elevators and Heating/ Air Conditioning Systems 
 
Rule 3.23.1 Elevators. One power driven elevator is required in all facilities having children’s 
rooms, playrooms or classrooms above the first floor. Minimum cab dimensions 
required for elevators transporting children is 76" x 50" inside clear measurements; 
hatchway and cab doors 3'8" wide, minimum.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.23.2  Heating and Ventilation.  Heating and air conditioning units/systems shall be 
provided to maintain comfortable temperatures throughout the facility.  A draft 
free seasonally appropriate temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit to 78 degrees 
Fahrenheit shall be maintained.  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 24   Medical Waste 
 
Rule 3.24.1  Medical Waste. The facility shall have and abide by a medical waste 
management plan consistent with the “Adopted Standards for the Regulation of 
Medical Waste” in Health Care Facilities Licensed by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health.  These standards can be located under Licensure and 
Regulations at www.msdh.state.ms.us.  
<<<PAGE 189>>>
189  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter 25     Emergency Operations Plan 
 
Rule 3.25.1 Emergency Operations Plan.  The Pediatric Skilled Nursing Facility shall 
develop and maintain a written preparedness plan utilizing the “All Hazards” 
approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The plan must include procedures 
to be flowed in the event of any act of terrorism or man-made or natural disaster 
as appropriate for the specific geological location.  The final draft of the 
Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) will be reviewed by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response (EOPR), Mississippi State Department of Health, or 
their designees, for conformance with the “All Hazards” Emergency Preparedness 
and Response Plan.  Particular attention shall be given to critical areas of concern 
which may arise during any “All Hazards” emergency whether required to 
evaluate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specific EOP format 
may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency Preparedness 
and Response.  The six critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications. Facility status report shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOPR; 
 
2. Resources and Assets; 
 
3. Safety and Security; 
 
4. Staffing; 
 
5. Utilities; 
 
6. Clinical Activities. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.25.2  Emergency Operations Plans.  Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be 
exercised and reviewed annually or as directed by the office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  Written evidence of current approval or review of 
provider EOPs, by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall 
accompany all applications for facility license renewals. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Subchapter  26   Facility Fire Preparedness 
 
Rule 3.26.1 Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees  
                       shall participate in a fire drill at least four time per year.   
<<<PAGE 190>>>
190  
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.26.2     Written Records.  Written records of all fire drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
Rule 3.26.3     Evacuation Plan.  A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a 
conspicuous place and kept current. 
 
SOURCE:  Mississippi Code Annotated §43-13-117 
 
CHAPTER 4 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR POST-ACUTE 
RESIDENTIAL BRAIN INJURY REHABILITATION FACILITIES (RBIR) 
CHAPTER 4 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR POST-ACUTE 
RESIDENTIA 
Subchapter 1   GENERAL: LEGAL AUTHORITY 
 
Rule 4.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi as per 
Section 41-75-13 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, the Mississippi 
State Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the following 
Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards of Operation for RBIR. Upon 
adoption of these Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards, all former rules, 
regulations and minimum standards in conflict therewith, previously adopted by 
the licensing agency, are hereby repealed. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.1.2 Codes and Ordinances.  Every licensed facility located inside the boundaries 
of a municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and ordinances 
applicable thereto. In addition, each licensed facility shall comply with all 
applicable state and federal laws. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.1.3 Fire Safety.  No RBIR shall be licensed until it shows conformance to the 
s a f e t y regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and detection 
of fire as well as for protection of life and property against fire. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.1.4 Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable 
deaths, or avoidable, serious, or life-threatening injuries to clients resulting from 
fires, explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the Life 
<<<PAGE 191>>>
191  
Safety Code Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after the 
occurrence.  The licensing agency will provide the appropriate forms to the 
RBIR which shall be completed and returned within fifteen (15) calendar days 
of the occurrence. All reports shall be complete and thorough and shall record, at 
a minimum the causal factors, date and time of occurrence, exact location of 
occurrence within or without the RBIR, and attached thereto shall be all police, 
fire, or other official reports. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 2  DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 4.2.1 Abuse. The willful infliction of physical or mental injury on an individual by 
other parties, including but not limited to such means as sexual abuse, 
exploitation, or extortion of funds or other things of value, unreasonable 
confinement, and/or intimidation to emotional well-being is endangered. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.2 Activities of Daily Living (ADLs). These are considered the basic, vital, daily 
activities for persons and are identified as bathing, grooming, dressing, dining, 
toileting, and ambulation/transfer. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.3 Brain Injury. The term “brain injury" is a traumatic or other insult to the brain 
and its  related parts resulting in organic damage thereto that may cause 
physical, intellectual, emotional, social, and/or vocational changes in a person.   
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.4 Client. An individual receiving care from a RBIR and shall include only 
individuals who are medically stable.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.5 Community Integration. The participation in the mainstream of community 
life and maintaining social relationships with family members, peers, and 
others in the community who do not have brain injuries.  Integration also 
means that clients have equal access to and full participation in community 
resources and activities available to the general public at the maximum amount 
of safety and independence as possible. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 192>>>
192  
Rule 4.2.6 Residential Brain Injury Rehabilitation Facility (RBIR). A facility 
containing no more than twelve (12) beds providing medically directed long-
term but non-acute rehabilitation to patients who have acquired brain injury. In 
order to be eligible for licensure, the post-acute residential brain injury 
rehabilitation facility shall be located at least twenty-five (25) miles from the 
nearest acute care rehabilitation hospital and at least five (5) miles from the 
boundaries of any municipality having a population of ten thousand (10,000) or 
more, according to the most recent federal decennial census, at the time that 
facility is established.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.7 Direct Care Staff. Employees of the facility that provide personal services to 
the clients. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.8 Director. The person designated by the owner or Governing Body as 
responsible for carrying on the day to day management, administration, 
supervision, and operation of the facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.9 Exploitation. The illegal or improper use of a vulnerable adult or his resources 
for another's profit or advantage, with or without the consent of the vulnerable 
adult, and includes acts committed pursuant to a power of attorney. "Exploitation" 
includes, but is not limited to, a single incident.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.10 Facility.  The term "facility" shall mean any home or institution that has 
sought or is currently seeking designation as a "licensed facility" under the 
terms of these regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.11 IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s). A whole blood test used to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection. The IGRA blood 
test used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.12  Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A 
situation in which the licensed facility's failure to meet one or more regulatory 
requirements  has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, 
impairment, or death to a client. 
<<<PAGE 193>>>
193  
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.13 Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADLs). These activities are 
considered to be instrumental, essential activities for persons, but are not 
usually considered as basic or vital activities of daily living, and may not be 
daily activities.  Such activities would include, but are not limited to:  
socialization, managing personal affairs, financial management, shopping, 
housekeeping, appropriate transportation correspondence, behavior and health 
management, etc. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.14 License. The term "license" shall mean the document issued by the licensing 
agency of the Mississippi State Department of Health. Licensure shall 
constitute authority to receive clients and perform the services included 
within the scope of these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.15 Licensed Facility.   The term "licensed facility" shall mean any business 
for RBIR which has been issued a license for operation by the licensing 
agency. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.16 Licensed Practical Nurse. The term "licensed practical nurse" shall mean a 
person who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing as a 
Licensed Practical Nurse. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.17 Licensee. The term "licensee" shall mean the person to which the license is 
issued and upon whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the institution.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.18 Licensing Agency.  The term “licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi 
State Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.19 Licensure Violation. The failure of a RBIR to comply with the minimum 
standards or requirements contained within this Chapter 4. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 194>>>
194  
 
Rule 4.2.20 Mantoux Test. A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one- 
tenth (0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative-tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm 
with a needle and syringe. The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and 
seventy-two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to  
the size of the induration. The classification of a reaction as positive or negative 
depends on the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition 
for “significant tuberculin skin test”). This test is used to evaluate the likelihood 
that a person is infected with M. tuberculosis. The Mantoux (TST) test should 
be administered only by persons certified in the intradermal technique. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.21 Medication Administration.   For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
"medication administration" is limited to those decisions, made by a licensed 
nurse or physician, regarding ( 1) which medication is to be taken, (2) the 
dosage of the medication, or (3) the time at which the medication is to be 
taken. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.22 Medication Assistance.  For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
"medication assistance" is the physical  act of handing an oral prescription  
medication  to the client along with  liquids to assist the client  in swallowing  
as deemed appropriate by the Medication Management Program. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.23 Medication Management Program. A systematic, functionally, oriented 
program formulated in consultation with the client’s primary provider, and 
implemented by staff.  The program shall be based upon an assessment and 
understanding of the behaviors of the client and recognition of the unique 
medical and pharmacological needs of the client.  It shall also mean an 
incorporation of the most appropriate level of assistance necessary to advance 
towards independence.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.24 Neglect. The failure to provide food, shelter, clothing, medical or other health 
services, appropriate security and supervision, or other personal services 
necessary for a client’s well-being. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.25 Nutritional Assessment. A nutritional assessment assesses nutritional status and 
<<<PAGE 195>>>
195  
includes determination of appropriateness of diet, adequacy of total food intake 
and the skills associated with eating, including chewing, sucking and 
swallowing disorders, food service practices, and monitoring and supervision of 
one’s own nutritional status.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.26 Outpatient. Outpatient rehabilitative treatment services may be provided to a 
client of the RBIR at an outpatient facility if necessary to advance the 
individual’s independence for higher level of community or transition to a 
greater level of independence in community or vocational function.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.27 Personal Care.  The term “personal care" shall mean the assistance rendered   
by personnel of the licensed facility to clients in performing one or more of the 
activities of daily living, including but not limited to bathing, hair care, skin 
care, shaving, nail care, oral hygiene, overall hygiene, walking, bowel and 
bladder management, eating, personal grooming, dressing, positioning, care of 
adaptive personal care devise and appropriate level of supervision. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.28 Pharmacist. The term "pharmacist" shall mean a person currently licensed to 
practice pharmacy in Mississippi by the State Board of Pharmacy. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.29 Plan of Correction. Plan of Correction shall mean a plan developed by the 
RBIR and approved by the licensure agency that describes the action the RBIR 
will take to correct the licensure violation(s) and specifies the date by which 
these licensure violation(s) will be corrected. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.30 Primary Provider. A physician provider board certified in his/her specialty 
who currently holds a valid license in Mississippi.  The primary provider is 
responsible for overseeing the decision making process for admission and 
continued stay of clients. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.31 Rehabilitative Treatment Environment. A rehabilitation setting that provides 
for all of the following: 
 
1. A provision of a range of choices, with personal preference, self-
<<<PAGE 196>>>
196  
determination, and dignity of risks receiving full respect and consideration. 
 
2. A variety of social interactions that promote community integration. 
 
3. An environment of peer support and mentorship. 
 
4. Professional team involvement. 
 
5. A physical environment conducive to enhancing the functional abilities of the 
client. 
 
6. Necessary therapeutic services.  These therapeutic services may include social 
work, behavioral services, speech therapy, physical therapy, occupational 
therapy, vocational services, and therapeutic recreational services.  All 
therapeutic providers must be licensed under state and, if applicable, national 
boards. 
 
7. A medication management program. 
 
8. Cognitive rehabilitation activities. 
 
9. The identification of functional limitations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.32 Rehabilitation. The process of providing those comprehensive services deemed 
appropriate to the needs of a client in a coordinated manner in a program designed 
to achieve functional objectives of improved health, welfare, maximum physical, 
cognitive, social, psychological, and community functioning. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.33 Representative. A person who voluntarily, with the client’s written authorization, 
may act upon the client’s direction regarding matters concerning the health and 
welfare of the client, including having access to personal records contained in the 
client’s file and receiving information and notices about the client’s overall care 
and condition.  No member of the Governing Body, administration, or staff of a 
brain injury facility or any member of their family may serve as the representative 
for a client unless they are related to the client by blood or marriage.  In the case 
of an individual that has been interdicted, “representative” means the court-
appointed curator or his designee. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.34 Therapeutic Recreational Services. Services that identify leisure activities and 
assistance in modifying and adapting identified leisure activities to allow safe 
<<<PAGE 197>>>
197  
participation by the client as a means to improve quality of life and aid in 
integration into the community. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.35 Service Plan. Each client must have a service plan that is developed by an 
interdisciplinary team that represents the professions, disciplines or service 
areas relevant to identifying the client’s needs as described by the 
comprehensive functional assessments. This service plan shall be prepared 
within 14 days after admission. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.36 Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters 
or greater is significant (or positive) in the following: 
 
10. Persons known to have or suspected of having human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
 
11. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
 
12. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous 
tuberculosis. 
 
13. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown). An induration of ten 
(10) millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all other persons 
tested in Mississippi. A tuberculin skin test is recorded in millimeters of 
induration. For accurate results, measure the widest diameter of the palpable 
induration transverse (across) the arm. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.37 Support. Activities, materials, equipment, or other services designed and 
implemented to assist the client with a brain injury.  Examples include but are not 
limited to instruction, training, assistive technology, or removal of architectural 
barriers. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.38 Surveyor.  The term “surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on  
a contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting 
surveys, inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the 
licensing agency's responsibilities for licensure and regulation of RBIR. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 198>>>
198  
Rule 4.2.39 Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who   
will periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to 
reduce the likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If 
initial tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated 
one (1) to three (3) weeks later.  If reaction to the second test is positive, it 
probably represents a boosted reaction.  If second test is also negative, the 
person is classified as not infected. A positive reaction to a subsequent test 
would indicate new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.40 Vocational Services. Services provided directly or through cooperating agencies 
to a client in accordance with his individualized plan and designed to improve or 
enhance skills and behaviors necessary for successful placement in a volunteer or 
work setting. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.2.41 The above definitions are not intended to be all-inclusive.  Other definitions are 
included in the text as appropriate. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 3 PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT  
 
Rule 4.3.1 Authority.   The licensing agency shall have the power to adopt, amend, 
promulgate and enforce such rules, regulations and minimum standards as 
it deems appropriate, within the law. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 4  INSPECTION 
 
Rule 4.4.1 Inspections/Surveys Required.  Each licensed facility shall be inspected by 
the   licensing agency or by persons delegated with authority by said licensing 
agency annually or more frequently at such intervals as the licensing agency 
may direct. The licensing agency and/or its authorized representatives shall 
have the right to inspect construction work in progress. New facilities shall not 
be licensed without having first been inspected for compliance with these 
rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 5  TYPES OF LICENSE 
 
Rule 4.5.1 Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each facility that meets 
<<<PAGE 199>>>
199  
the requirements as set forth in these regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.5.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the licensing agency may issue a 
provisional license only if the licensing agency is satisfied that preparations 
are being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and safety 
of clients will not be endangered. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75 
 
Subchapter 6  APPLICATION OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE 
 
Rule 4.6.1 Application.  Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency, on forms provided by the licensing agency, 
which shall contain such information as the licensing agency may require.  
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.6.2 Fees.  
 
1. Fees. Each application for licensure shall be accompanied by a fee of One 
Thousand Dollars ($1000.00) plus Twenty Dollars ($20.00) per bed, in 
check or money order made payable to Mississippi State Department of 
Health. The fees are not refundable. 
 
2. Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a User Fee to the 
licensing agency when it is required to review and/or inspect the proposal of 
any licensed facility in which there are additions, renovations, 
modernizations, expansions, alterations, conversions, modifications, or 
replacements.  Said fee shall be assessed at the rate of Fifty Dollars 
($50.00) per hour or part thereof. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.6.3 Application for License. Applications should include: 
 
1. Name of Facility. Every RBIR shall be designated by a permanent and 
distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not 
be changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and 
receiving written approval of the change from the licensing agency. Such 
notice shall specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name 
proposed. Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency and 
by which the facility is licensed shall be used in telephone listing, on 
stationery, in advertising, etc.  Two or more facilities shall not be licensed 
under a similar name. 
<<<PAGE 200>>>
200  
 
2. Number of Beds. RBIR shall contain no more than 12 beds. 
 
3. A copy of the on-site inspection report with approval for occupancy 
by the Office of the State Fire Marshal. 
 
4. A copy of the health inspection report with approval of occupancy 
from the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
5. Verification of a criminal history records check which was processed 
through the MSDH FingerPro system. 
 
6. Proof of financial viability as evidenced by one of the following: 
 
a. Verification of sufficient assets equal to one hundred thousand 
dollars or the cost of three months of operation, whichever is 
less; or 
 
b. A letter of credit equal to one hundred thousand dollars or the 
cost of three months of operation, whichever is less. 
 
7. Proof of worker’s compensation insurance. 
 
8. Disclosure of ownership and control information. 
 
9. A written statement that the facility will not at any time participate in 
the Medicaid program (Section 43-13-101 et.seq.) or admit or keep 
any patients in the facility who are participating in the Medicaid 
program. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 7  LICENSING 
 
Rule 4.7.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set 
forth the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the 
classification of the facility, the type of building, the bed capacity for which 
<<<PAGE 201>>>
201  
the facility is licensed  and the license number. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.7.2 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on 
the licensed premises and shall be available for review by interested persons. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.7.3 License Not Transferable.   The license is not transferable or assignable to 
any other person except by written approval of the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.7.4 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31, following the 
date of issuance. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.7.5 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable annually upon:  
 
1. Filing and approval of an application for renewal by the 
licensing agency. 
 
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee of $20.00 per 
bed. 
 
3. Maintenance by the licensed facility of minimum standards in 
its physical facility, staff, services, and operation as set forth in 
these regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 8  DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
 
Rule 4.8.1 Denial or Revocation of License.  The licensing agency, after notice and 
opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is authorized to deny, 
suspend, or revoke a license, or deny renewal of a license, in any case in 
which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with the 
requirements established under the law and these regulations. Also, the 
following shall be grounds for denial or revocation of license: 
 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license, or renewal of 
<<<PAGE 202>>>
202  
license. 
 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of 
Sections 43-11-1 et seq, of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, 
and/or of the rules, regulations, and minimum standards established by the 
licensing agency. 
 
3. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or other employees or 
personnel of the licensed facility. 
 
4. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the 
licensed facility to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety 
of the clients. 
 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the licensed facility and/or its services. 
 
7. Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
 
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of clients and 
employees of said licensed facility. Detrimental practices include but 
are not limited to: 
 
a. Cruelty or abuse of or to a client or indifference to the needs of the 
client which are essential to the general well-being and health.  
 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a client. 
 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of a client. 
 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a client. 
 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant when required by a client's condition. 
 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a client's condition becomes critical. 
 
g. Admission of a client whose condition demands care beyond the level 
of care provided by the licensed facility as determined by its 
classification. 
 
9. A violation of 24-hour supervision requirement and/or the transfer of a 
client from the licensed facility to any unlicensed facility may result in the 
facility's license being made provisional for a period of 90 days. At the end 
of that 90-day period, if corrective actions have not been taken by the 
<<<PAGE 203>>>
203  
licensed facility, that Provisional License may be revoked. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.8.2 Immediate Revocation of License.  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, 
the license and require closure of any institution for the aged or infirm, 
including any other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of 
the clients of said institution or the health and safety of the general public. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 9 FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING DENIAL 
OR   REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
 
Rule 4.9.1 Administrative Decision.   The licensing agency will provide an opportunity 
for a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with 
administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered 
mail or personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or 
revocation of license. Upon written request of applicant or licensee within 
ten (10) days of the date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a 
date not less than thirty (30) days from the date of such service at which 
time the applicant or licensee shall be given an opportunity for a prompt 
and fair hearing. 
 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or 
licensee, the licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its 
findings of fact and conclusions of law. A copy of such determination 
shall be sent by registered mail to the last known address of the 
applicant or licensee or served personally   upon the applicant or 
licensee. 
 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license 
shall become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the 
applicant or licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the 
decision in Chancery Court pursuant to Section 43-11 -23 of the 
Mississippi Code of 1972.  An additional period of time may be granted at 
the discretion of the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.9.2 Penalties. Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating facility 
without a license shall be declared in violation of these regulations and may be 
punished as set forth in the enabling statute. Further, any person who violates 
<<<PAGE 204>>>
204  
any provision of the enabling statute or of these regulations promulgated 
thereto  shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor. Such 
misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be as referenced in Section 43-1 1-25 of 
the Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.9.3 Ban on Admissions. If  a  condition of immediate jeopardy exists at a 
licensed facility, written notice of the determination of the condition shall be 
provided by the licensing agency to the licensed facility, along with the 
notification that a ban on all admissions is to be imposed within five (5) 
calendar days after the receipt of the notice by the licensed facility.  If the 
licensing agency's determination of a condition of immediate jeopardy on 
the day of the licensure visit/survey is confirmed, a ban on all admissions 
shall be imposed until the licensed facility achieves compliance and such 
compliance is verified by the licensing agency. The licensing agency will 
verify the licensed facility's corrective actions as soon as possible after the 
licensing agency receives an acceptable plan of correction from the  licensed 
facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 10   ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION 
 
Rule 4.10.1 Governing Body.   
 
1. A facility shall have an identifiable Governing Body with responsibility and 
authority for the policies and activities of the program/agency.  The 
governing authority, the owner, or the person(s) designated by the governing 
authority shall be the supreme authority in an RBIR responsible for the 
management, control, and operation of the institution, including the 
appointment of qualified staff. 
 
a. The Governing Body shall be designated in writing. 
 
b. When the Governing Body of a facility is comprised of more than one 
person, the Governing Body shall hold formal meetings at least quarterly.  
There shall be written bylaws specifying frequency of meetings and 
quorum requirements.  There shall be written minutes of all meetings. 
 
c. When the Governing Body is composed of only one person, this person 
shall assume all responsibilities of the Governing Body.  
 
2. Responsibilities of the Governing Body.  The Governing Body of a facility 
shall: 
 
<<<PAGE 205>>>
205  
a. Ensure the facility’s compliance and conformity with the facility’s policies 
and procedures; 
 
b. Ensure the facility’s continual compliance and conformity with all 
relevant federal, state, and local  laws and regulations; 
 
c. Ensure that the facility is adequately funded and fiscally sound; 
 
d. Review and approve the facility’s annual budget; 
 
e. Designate a person to act as Director and delegate sufficient authority to 
this person to manage the facility (a sole owner may be the director); 
 
f. Formulate and annually review, in consultation with the Director, written 
policies concerning the facility’s philosophy, goals, current services, 
personnel practices, job descriptions and fiscal management; and 
 
g. Annually evaluate the Director’s performance (if a sole owner is not 
acting as director). 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.2 Organization. Each RBIR shall establish a written organizational plan, which 
may be in the form of an organizational chart that clearly establishes a line of 
authority, responsibilities, and relationships. Written personnel policies and job 
descriptions shall be prepared and provided to each employee. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.3 Director. There shall be a full-time employee designated as Director of the 
licensed facility who shall be responsible for the management of the licensed 
facility, including day to day management, supervision, operation of the 
facility, and ensuring the individual service plan is implemented and carried 
out. The Director shall be at least twenty-one years of age and shall posses, at 
a minimum: 
 
1. A  Bachelor’s degree in a health care field, plus six (6) years of experience 
in the fields of health, social services, management or administration; or 
 
2. A  Master’s degree in a health care field, plus five (5) years of experience in 
the field of health, social services, management, or administration  
 
3. The Director shall not be a client of the licensed facility. The Director 
shall have verification that he/she is not listed on the "Mississippi Nurses 
<<<PAGE 206>>>
206  
Aide Abuse Registry." When the Director is not within the licensed facility, 
there shall be an individual onsite at the licensed facility who shall 
represent the Director, and be capable of assuming the responsibility of 
Director.  Said person must be at least twenty-one years of age, possess a 
bachelor’s degree, and shall have verification that he/she is not listed on 
the "Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry." 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.4 Financial 
Financial. 
1. Accounting. Accounting methods and procedures should be carried out in 
accordance with a recognized system of good business practice. The 
method  and procedure used should be sufficient to permit annual audit, 
accurate determination of the cost of operation and the cost per client per 
day. 
 
2. Financial Structure. All facilities shall have a financial plan which 
guarantees sufficient resources to meet operating cost at all times and to 
maintain standards required by these regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.5 Personnel.   There must be responsible trained staff on duty on a 24- hour 
basis to provide direct care services, respond to injuries and symptoms of 
illness, and to handle emergencies.  All direct care employees shall be a 
minimum of 18 years of age, and shall have verification that they are not 
listed on the "Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."   The staff shall be 
knowledgeable of each client’s service plan.  Personnel shall be employed 
and on duty, awake, and fully dressed to provide personal care to the clients.  
The facility shall be staffed to properly safeguard the health, safety and 
welfare of the clients, as required in these regulations.  There shall be 
adequate staff to meet the needs of the clients as outlined in the individual 
service plans, but at a minimum, there shall be no fewer than one (1) direct 
care staff per four (4) or fewer clients at all times and a designated person 
in charge on each shift. 
 
1. Personnel shall receive training annually on topics and issues related to 
the population being served in the licensed facility.  Training shall be 
documented by a narrative of the content and signatures of those 
attending.  
 
2. Direct Care Staff may include care assistants, nurses, social workers, activities 
personnel, or other staff who provide direct care services to clients on a 
regular basis. If employed at more than one facility, the facility must maintain 
a copy of each entities schedule and ensure that their schedule does not 
<<<PAGE 207>>>
207  
overlap.   
 
3. The Nursing Director or physician must be available by telecommunications 
or able to be available on-site as needed 24 hours/day. 
 
4. Nursing Director 
 
a. Qualifications:  Each facility must have a Nursing Director who currently 
maintains an unrestricted license as a Registered Nurse in Mississippi.   
 
b. Nursing activities must comply with Mississippi Board of Nursing Nurse 
Practice Law.   
 
c. Responsibilities:  The responsibilities of a Nursing Director are to advance 
community integration through: 
 
i. Overseeing the medication management program, including staff 
training to implement the program; 
 
ii. Assisting the client in the restoration and maintenance of maximal 
health; 
 
iii. Consulting the primary physician to advance the client with their 
medication management program; 
 
iv. Advancing understanding of their unique medical and pharmacological 
needs; and 
 
v. Assuring that nursing care is provided in accordance with the client’s 
individual service plan; 
 
d. The Nurse Director may be a contract employee.  
 
5. LPN staff may administer medications in accordance with the Mississippi 
Board of Nursing requirements.    
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.6 Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
1.     Definitions. 
 
a. Affidavit. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background 
history checks, the term "affidavit" means the use of Mississippi State 
Department of Health (MSDH) Form #210, or a copy thereof, which 
shall be placed in the individual’s personal file. 
<<<PAGE 208>>>
208  
 
b. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background 
history checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a 
covered entity. The  term "employee" also includes any individual who 
by contract with the covered  entity provides direct client care in a 
client's room or in   treatment rooms. 
 
c. The term employee does not include healthcare professional/technical 
students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training 
in a licensed entity  under contracts between their schools and the 
licensed entity, and does not include students at high schools who 
observe the treatment and care of clients in a licensed entity as part of 
the requirements of an allied health course taught in the school if: 
 
i. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare 
provider; and 
 
ii. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student's 
school stating  that he or she has not been convicted of or plead 
guilty or nolo contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, 
murder, manslaughter,  armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex 
offenses listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand 
larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or 
felonious abuse and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such 
conviction or plea was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted 
for the conviction or plea. 
 
iii. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 
are exempt from application of the term employee under Section 
41-75-13. 
 
d. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
"covered entity" means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional 
staffing agency.  
 
e. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
the term "licensed entity" means an RBIR.  
 
f. Health Care Professional Vocational Technical Student.  For 
purposes of   criminal history record checks, the term means a student 
enrolled in a healthcare professional/vocational technical academic 
program. 
 
g. Direct Client Care or Services. For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
<<<PAGE 209>>>
209  
criminal background history checks, the term "direct client care" means 
direct hands-on  medical client care and services provided by an 
individual to a client, in a client's room or treatment room.  Individuals 
providing direct  client care may be directly employed by the facility or 
provides client care on a contractual basis. 
 
h. Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of 
fingerprinting and criminal background history checks, the term 
"documented disciplinary action" means any action taken against an 
employee for abuse or neglect of a client. 
 
2. Pursuant to Section 43-1 1-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity 
shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the professional 
licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any disciplinary 
action has been taken against the employee by the agency, and   a criminal 
history record check on: 
 
a. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct client care 
or services; and 
 
b. Every employee of a covered entity who has documented disciplinary 
action by his or her present employer. 
 
3. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee shall be 
permitted to provide direct client care until the results of the criminal 
history record check have revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver. Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background 
check, any person may be employed and provide direct client care on a 
temporary basis pending the results of the criminal history record check but 
any employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be 
voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check and no 
waiver is granted . 
 
4. If such criminal history record check discloses a criminal conviction; a 
guilty plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a crime that is job-related 
which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been 
granted, the applicant/employee may not be eligible to be employed at the 
licensed facility.  Documentation of verification of the employee's 
disciplinary status, if any, with the employee's professional licensing 
agency as applicable, and evidence of submission of the employee's 
fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on file and maintained by the 
facility prior to the new employees first date of employment. The covered 
entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification  of the employee's 
disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing agency and 
of submission and/or completion of the criminal record check, a copy of 
<<<PAGE 210>>>
210  
the referenced notarized letter addressing the individual’s suitability for 
such employment . 
 
5. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the 
fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00).  
 
6. Should results of an employee applicant's criminal history record check 
reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) 
weeks of the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee 
applicant with a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered entity, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee 
applicant's suitability for employment based on his or her criminal history 
record check. An employee applicant may use that letter for a period of 
two (2) years from the date of the letter to seek employment at any covered 
entity licensed by the Mississippi State Department of Health without the 
necessity of an additional criminal record check. Any covered entity 
presented with the letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee 
applicant's criminal background and is not required for a period of two (2) 
years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal 
history record check as required in this subsection. 
 
7. For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct client 
care as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal 
history record check. 
 
8. Pursuant to Section 41-75-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, attorneys 
and  representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any 
employment decision or action taken under this section. The presumption of 
good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil 
action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys and representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.7 Employee's Health Status. All licensed facility personnel shall receive a 
health screening by a licensed physician, a nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant, or a registered nurse prior to employment and annually thereafter. 
Records of this health screening shall be kept on file in the licensed facility.   
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.8 Employee Testing for Tuberculosis. 
 
<<<PAGE 211>>>
211  
1. Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to contact 
with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one of the 
following methods: 
 
a. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual for signs 
and symptoms of tuberculosis by medical personnel; or 
 
b. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and read by a 
licensed medical/nursing person certified in the techniques of 
tuberculin testing and an evaluation of the individual for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant, Nurse Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may be 
administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no more 
than 30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the individual 
must not be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of the RBIR 
where patients have access until receipt of the results of the 
IGRA/assessment or at least the first of the two-step Mantoux test has been 
administered/read and assessment for the signs and symptoms completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in 
millimeters. Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and assessment 
must be documented in accordance with accepted standards of 
medical/nursing practice and must be placed in the individual’s personnel 
file no later than 7 days of the individual’s date of employment. If an IGRA 
is performed, results and quantitative values must be documented. 
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive 
Mantoux skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease (TB) 
that last longer than three weeks (regardless of the size of the skin test or 
results of the IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a board certified 
Radiologist and be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a licensed physician 
within 72 hours. The employee shall not be allowed to work in any area 
where clients have routine access until evaluated by a physician/nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant and approved to return. Exceptions to this 
requirement may be made if the employee is asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of tuberculosis prophylactic therapy 
approved by the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) 
Tuberculosis Program for tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of multi-drug chemotherapy approved by 
the MSDH Tuberculosis Program; or 
<<<PAGE 212>>>
212  
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant tuberculin 
skin reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux testing  
or the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and symptoms must be 
conducted and must be maintained as part of the employee’s annual health 
screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is NOT required unless symptoms 
of active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin test 
and a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of the two- 
step Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in the 
employees’ personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who has 
not been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test cannot be 
documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has documentation 
that the employee has had a negative TB skin test within the past 12 months, 
a single test performed thirty (30) days prior to employment or immediately 
upon hire will fulfill the two-step requirements. As above, the employee 
shall not have contact with clients or be allowed to work in areas of the 
RBIR to which clients have routine access prior to reading the skin test, 
completing a signs and symptoms assessment and documenting the results 
and findings. 
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease 
Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding baseline 
employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and education. 
Staff exposed to an active infectious case of tuberculosis shall be treated as 
contacts and be managed appropriately. Individuals found to have a 
significant Mantoux tuberculin skin test reaction and a chest x-ray not 
suggestive of active tuberculosis, shall be evaluated by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant for treatment of latent tuberculin infection. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.9 Orientation. Facilities shall have an orientation program upon hire and ongoing 
annual training thereafter.  
 
1. A facility shall have an orientation program upon hire that shall include, but is 
not limited to, training in the following topics for all personnel: 
 
a. The policies and procedures of the facility; 
 
b. Emergency and evacuation procedures; 
<<<PAGE 213>>>
213  
 
c. Client’s rights; 
 
d. Abuse/neglect and exploitation prevention and requirements concerning 
the reporting of abuse and neglect of clients; 
 
e. Procedures for reporting of  incidents and accidents; 
 
f. Instruction in the specific responsibilities of the employee’s job; and 
 
g. Cultural competency.  
 
2. Orientation for direct care staff shall include the following: 
 
a. Training in Client Care Services (Activities of Daily Living and 
Instrumental Activities of Daily Living) provided by the facility; 
 
b. Infection control to include Universal Precautions; and, 
 
c. Any specialized training to meet clients’ needs. 
 
3. A new employee shall not be given sole responsibility for the implementation 
of a client’s program plan until this training is completed. 
 
4. All direct care staff shall receive and/or have documentation of certification in 
Basic Life Support and general first aid procedures within the first 30 days of 
employment. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.10 Annual Training. 
 
1. A facility shall ensure that each direct care staff participates in in-service 
training each year.  Routine supervision of direct care staff shall not be 
considered as meeting this requirement. 
 
2. The facility shall document that direct care staff receive training on an annual 
basis in: 
 
a. Facility’s policies and procedures. 
 
b. Emergency and evacuation procedures; 
 
c. Client’s rights; 
 
d. Abuse and neglect prevention and requirements concerning the reporting 
<<<PAGE 214>>>
214  
of abuse and neglect and incidents and accidents; 
 
e. Client care services (Activities of Daily Living and Instrumental Activities 
of Daily Living); 
 
f. Infection control to include Universal Precautions; 
 
g. Any specialized training to meet clients’ needs, and 
 
h. Cultural competency. 
 
3. All direct care staff shall have documentation of current certification in Basic 
Life Support. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.11 Personnel Files. 
 
1. A facility shall maintain a personnel record for each employee.  At a 
minimum, this file shall contain the following: 
 
a. The application for employment including the applicant’s education, 
training, and experience; 
 
b. A criminal history check, prior to an offer of employment; 
 
c. Evidence of applicable professional credentials; 
 
d. Documentation of required health assessment as defined in the facility’s 
policy and procedure; 
 
e. Annual performance evaluation; 
 
f. Employee’s hire and termination dates; 
 
g. Documentation of orientation and annual training; and 
 
h. Documentation of a current, valid driver’s license (if driving or 
transporting clients). 
 
2. A facility shall not release an employee’s personnel file without the 
employee’s written permission, except as required by state law. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.10.12 Evaluation.  An employee’s Annual Performance Evaluation shall include an 
<<<PAGE 215>>>
215  
evaluation of his/her interaction with clients, family, and other employees. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 11   ADMISSIONS, DISCHARGES AND TRANSFERS  
 
Rule 4.11.1 Admission Criteria.   
 
1. The facility shall have a clear and specific written description of admission 
policies and procedures.  This should include, but is not limited to, a) the 
application process and the criteria for the rejection of an application; b) 
types of clients suitable to the facility; c) services offered and allowed in 
the facility.  
 
2. The following criteria must be applied and maintained for client placement 
in a licensed facility: 
 
a. Only clients whose needs can be met by the licensed facility shall be 
admitted.  
 
b. Clients are brain injury patients who require education and training for 
independent living with a focus on increasing independence; such care 
prepares clients for maximum independence, teaches necessary skills for 
community interaction, works with clients pre-vocational and vocational 
training and stresses cognitive, speech and behavioral therapies 
structured to the individual needs of patients who cannot live at home 
and who require on-going support and rehabilitation. 
 
c. A person shall not be admitted or continue to reside in an licensed 
facility if the person: 
 
i. Requires physical restraints; 
 
ii. Poses a serious threat to himself or herself or others; 
 
iii. Requires nasopharyngeal and/or tracheotomy suctioning; 
 
iv. Requires intravenous fluids, medications, or feedings; or 
 
d. Licensed facilities which are not accessible to individuals with 
disabilities through the A.N.S.I. Standards as they relate to facility 
accessibility may not accept  wheelchair bound clients. Only those 
persons who, in an emergency, would be physically and mentally 
capable of traveling to safety may be accepted. For   multilevel facilities, 
no clients that are unable to descend the stairs unassisted may be placed 
<<<PAGE 216>>>
216  
above the ground floor level. 
 
e. The licensed facility must be able to identify at the time of admission 
and during continued stay those clients whose needs for services are 
consistent with these rules and regulations, and those clients who 
should be transferred to an appropriate level of care. 
 
f. Notwithstanding any determination by the licensing agency that the 
client no longer meets admission criteria, that client, the client's 
guardian, or the legally recognized responsible party for the client may 
consent in writing for the client to continue reside in the RBIR, if 
approved in writing by a licensed physician.  Provided , however, that 
no RBIR shall allow more than two (2) clients, or ten percent (10%) of 
the number of clients in the facility, whichever is greater, to remain in 
the RBIR under the provisions herein.  This consent shall be deemed to  
be appropriately informed consent as described by these regulations. 
After that     written consent has been obtained, the client shall have the 
right to continue to reside in the RBIR for as long as the client meets 
the other   conditions for residing in the RBIR. A copy of the written 
consent and the physician's approval shall be forwarded by the RBIR 
to the licensing agency within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the 
latter of the two (2)     documents. 
 
g. No licensee, owner, or administrator of a RBIR; a member of their 
family; an employee of the RBIR; or a person who has financial interest 
in the home shall act as the legal guardian for a client of the RBIR. This 
requirement shall not apply if the client is related within the third 
degree as computed by civil law. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.11.2 At the time of admission the facility shall: 
 
1. Obtain from the client or the client’s family or representative, their plan for 
both routine and emergency medical care to include the name of physician(s) 
and provisions and authorization for emergency medical care; 
 
2. Document that the client and/or representative was informed of the facility’s 
emergency and evacuation procedures;  
 
3. Obtain a copy of any existing executed Medical Power of Attorney or a 
Living Will. The facility shall maintain a copy of such documents; and 
 
4. Shall execute, in writing, an admission agreement, including a financial 
agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed by the Director and 
the client or the client’s responsible party, in two or more copies. One copy 
<<<PAGE 217>>>
217  
shall be given to the client or his/her responsible party, and one copy placed 
on file in the licensed facility.  As a minimum, this agreement shall contain 
specifically:  
 
a. Clear and specific occupancy criteria and procedures (admission, 
transfer, and discharge); 
 
b. Basic services to be made available; 
 
c. Basic charges agreed upon; 
 
d. Optional services which are available; 
 
e. Statement of non-covered services; 
 
f. Payor or funding source; 
 
g. Period to be covered in the charges; 
 
h. Services for which special charges are made; 
 
i. Agreement regarding refunds for any payments made in advance. 
 
j. Client’s Code of Conduct for participation in the program and 
client’s agreement to abide by the same; 
 
k. A Notice that the MS State Department of Health has the authority 
to examine clients’ records as part of the evaluation of the facility; 
 
l. Division of responsibility between the facility, client, family, or 
others (e.g., arranging for or overseeing medical care, purchase of 
essential or desired supplies, emergencies, monitoring of health, 
handling or finances); 
 
m. Clients’ rights; 
 
n. Explanation of the grievance procedure and appeals process; 
 
o. The development of a service plan specific to the individual client, 
including participation of the client and/or representative in the 
development of the plan; 
 
p. A statement that the Director shall make the client's responsible party 
aware, in a timely manner, of any changes in client's status, including 
those which require transfer and discharge; or Directors who have 
been designated as a client's responsible party shall ensure prompt and 
<<<PAGE 218>>>
218  
efficient action to meet client's needs; 
 
q. State that the client or his responsible party shall be furnished a 
receipt signed by the licensee of the licensed facility or his lawful 
agent, for all sums of money paid to the licensed facility; and 
 
r. Evidence of written notification provided to the client/responsible 
party when basic charges and/or licensed facility policies change. 
 
5. No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee 
and the client or his responsible agent which will relieve the licensee 
of the responsibility for the protection of the person and personal 
property of the individual admitted to the licensed facility for care. 
 
 
6. Within seven days of admission, the facility shall complete an assessment to 
determine the needs and preferences of the client. The assessment shall 
include but is not limited to:  
  
a. Review of physical health, psycho-social status, and cognitive status and 
determination of services necessary to meet those needs; 
 
b. A summary of the client’s health needs, if any, including medication, 
treatment and special diet orders obtained from professionals with 
responsibility for the client’s physical or emotional health; 
 
c. A written description of the activities of daily living and instrumental 
activities of daily living for which the client requires assistance, if any, 
obtained from the client, the client’s physician, family, or representative; 
 
d. The client’s interests, likes and dislikes; 
 
e. Recreational and social activities which are suitable or desirable; 
 
f. A plan for handling special emergency evacuation needs; and 
 
g. Additional information or documents pertinent to the client’s service 
planning, such as guardianship papers, Power of Attorney, Living Wills, 
Do-Not-Resuscitate orders, or other relevant medical documents. 
 
7. Within 14 days after admission, the facility, with input from the client and/or 
his/her representative, shall develop and implement a service plan using 
information from the assessment. The service plan shall include: 
 
a. The client’s needs; 
 
<<<PAGE 219>>>
219  
b. The scope, frequency, and duration of services and monitoring that will be 
provided to meet the client’s needs;  
 
c. Staff responsible for providing the services inclusive of third party 
providers;  
 
d. Current medication list from the client’s primary care physician; and 
 
e. Identification of level of assistance client requires. 
 
8. The facility shall have a reporting procedure in place for notifying appropriate 
individuals of observed or reported changes in a client’s condition. 
 
9. The client’s service plan shall be revised when a client’s condition or 
preferences change.  The revised service plan shall be signed by the client and 
the representative, if applicable, and the designated facility staff. 
 
10. The service plan shall be monitored on an ongoing basis to determine its 
continued appropriateness and to identify when a client’s condition or 
preferences have changed.  A documented review of the service plan shall be 
made at least every quarter. 
 
11. All plans and reviews shall be signed by the client, facility staff, and the 
representative, if applicable. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 12  DISCHARGE CRITERIA OR TRANSFER 
 
Rule 4.12.1 The Director shall, in consultation with the client and the representative, if 
applicable, assist in planning and implementing the transfer or discharge of the 
client when: 
 
1. The client’s adjustment to the facility is not satisfactory as determined by the 
Director in consultation with the client or his or her representative.  It is the 
responsibility of the Director to contact the client’s representative, if 
applicable, and request assistance to help the client in adjusting.  This request 
is to be made at the first indication of an adjustment problem; 
 
2. The client is in need of services that the facility cannot provide or obtain for 
the client; or  
 
3. The client or representative has failed to pay all fees and costs stated in the 
admission agreement or otherwise materially breached the admission 
agreement. 
 
<<<PAGE 220>>>
220  
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.12.2 When a discharge or transfer is initiated by the facility, the Director must provide 
the client, and his/her representative, if applicable, with thirty (30) days prior 
written notice citing the reason for the discharge or transfer, except shorter notice 
may be given in cases where the client is a danger to self or others. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.12.3 At the request of the client or representative, copies of all pertinent information 
shall be given to the Director of the licensed facility to which the client is 
transferred. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.12.4 The following discharge information shall be recorded in the client’s record: 
 
1. Date of discharge; 
 
2. Transfer facility; 
 
3. Reason(s) for discharge; and 
 
4. Condition upon discharge. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.12.5 Discharge records shall be retained for at least six (6) years from the date of              
discharge. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 13  SERVICES 
 
Rule 4.13.1 The facility shall provide adequate services and oversight/supervision including 
adequate security measures, twenty-four (24) hours per day. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.13.2 The facility shall provide or coordinate services, to the extent needed or desired 
by clients. The client may participate in these services as written in their service 
plan. The following services are required: 
 
1. Assistance with all activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily 
living; 
 
<<<PAGE 221>>>
221  
2. At least three meals a day, seven days a week, that take into account client’s 
dietary requirements, preferences and needs in residential facilities; 
 
3. Basic personal laundry services in residential facilities; 
 
4. Opportunities for individual and group socialization and to utilize community 
resources to create a normal and realistic environment for community 
interaction within and outside the facility (i.e. barber/beauty services, 
social/recreational opportunities); 
 
5. Services for client requiring occupational, physical and speech therapy, as 
outlined in their individual service plan; 
 
6. Services for clients requiring social and emotional services; 
 
7. Services for clients who have behavior problems requiring ongoing staff 
support, intervention, and supervision to ensure no danger or infringement of 
the rights of other clients or individuals; 
 
8. Household services essential for the health and comfort of client (e.g. floor 
cleaning, dusting, bed making, etc) in residential facilities; 
 
9. Assistance with self-administration of medications as needed and deemed 
appropriate by the Medication Management Program; and, 
 
10. A program of recreational activities. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.13.3 Method of Medication Assistance. The method of providing medication 
shall be the use of a pre-prepared blister pack of medication prescribed to 
the client.  Packaging of the blister pack must be by a licensed pharmacist 
who has filled the prescription following licensed primary care provider’s 
orders as to medication to be taken, dosage, and the time at which the 
medication is to be taken. The facility shall assess the skill level of the 
person assisting in delivering medication and provide training to assure 
competency.  
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.13.4 Nutritional Assessment. A Registered Dietician shall provide ongoing 
evaluation and assessment when individual needs are identified and, at 
minimum, on a quarterly basis and more often if indicated. The Registered 
Dietician shall be notified for intervention as appropriate when a change in 
nutritional status, weight loss or weight g a i n is noted. The initial nutritional 
assessment shall be completed within 14 days after admission. 
<<<PAGE 222>>>
222  
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 14 RECORDS AND REPORTS  
 
Rule 4.14.1 Conservatorship and Licensing Agency Records. The Director shall 
maintain: 
 
2. A record of the clients for whom  he or she serves as the conservator or a 
representative payee. This record shall include evidence of the means by 
which the conservatorship or representative payee relationship was 
established and evidence of separate accounts in a bank for each client 
whose conservator or representative payee is the Director of the licensed 
facility. 
 
2. Inspection reports from the licensing agency, any branch or division 
thereof in the licensed facility, and submitted to the licensing agency as 
required, or when requested. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.14.2 Confidentiality and Security of Files. The facility shall ensure the 
confidentiality of client records, including information in a computerized medical 
record system, in accordance with the HIPAA Privacy Regulations (Title 45, Part 
164, Subpart E of the Code of Federal Regulations) and any Mississippi state laws 
and regulations which provide a more stringent standard of confidentiality than 
the HIPAA Privacy Regulations.  Information from or copies of records may be 
released only to authorized individuals, and the facility must ensure that 
unauthorized individuals cannot gain access to or alter client records.  Original 
medical records shall not be released outside the facility unless under court order 
or subpoena or in order to safeguard the record in the event of a physical plant 
emergency or natural disaster. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.14.3 Client Records. The facility shall maintain a separate record for each 
client.  Such record shall be current and complete and shall be maintained 
in the facility or in a central administrative location readily available to 
facility staff and to the licensing agency.  All records shall be maintained in 
an accessible, standardized order and format and shall be retained and 
disposed of in accordance with state laws.   
 
1. Client records shall contain the following: 
 
<<<PAGE 223>>>
223  
a. General information form, including at a minimum:  Identifying 
information to include at least client’s name, marital status, date of birth, 
and gender; 
 
b. Dates of admission and discharge; 
 
c. Client’s written authorization and contact information of the 
representative or responsible person; 
 
d. Admission agreement(s) and financial statements; 
 
e. Clients' rights and licensed facility's rules, signed, dated, and witnessed; 
 
f. Medical referral from physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant; 
 
g. The admission assessment documenting the appropriateness of the 
client’s admission to facility; 
 
h. Individual service plan, updates, and quarterly reviews; 
 
i. Name and 24 hour contact information for the primary physician and 
any other physician involved in the client’s care; 
 
j. Initial and annual health and physicals; 
 
k. Current medication record, including any reactions to such medication; 
 
l. Progress notes of care and services received and response to treatment; 
 
m. Social services and activity contacts; 
 
n. Record of all personal property and funds; 
 
o. Representative payee statement, if applicable; and 
 
p. Physician orders or nurse practitioner/physician assistant orders 
(including, but not limited to, therapies, diets, medications, etc.) and 
medication administration records. 
 
2. The records, as described in this section, shall be made available to the 
client, the client's family, or other responsible party for the client upon 
reasonable  request. 
 
3. The facility shall report and comply with the annual MSDH TB 
Program surveillance procedures. 
<<<PAGE 224>>>
224  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.14.4 Client Funds. 
 
1. If a facility offers the service of safekeeping and/or management of clients’ 
personal funds, the facility’s admission agreement shall include the client’s 
rights regarding personal funds and list the services offered and charges, if 
any. Any charges assessed shall not exceed the actual cost incurred by the 
facility for the provision of the services. 
 
2. There is no obligation for a client to deposit funds with the facility or have the 
facility manage his/her funds, and the facility may not require the client to 
deposit his/her funds with the facility. If a facility offers the service of 
safekeeping and if a client wishes to entrust funds, the facility shall: 
 
a. Obtain written authorization from the client and/or his/her representative 
to safekeeping of funds; 
 
b. Provide each client with a receipt listing the amount of money the facility 
is holding in trust for the client; 
 
c. Maintain a current balance sheet containing all financial transactions to 
include the signatures of staff and the client for each transaction; and 
 
d. Not accept more than three hundred dollars ($300) of a client’s money. 
 
3. If a facility offers the service of safekeeping and/or management of clients’ 
personal funds, the facility shall purchase a surety bond or otherwise provide 
assurance satisfactory to the Secretary to assure the security of all personal 
funds of clients deposited with the facility. In addition, if a client wishes the 
facility to assist with the management of all their funds, the facility: 
 
a. Shall receive written authorization to manage the client’s funds from the 
client and the representative, if applicable; 
 
b. Shall only manage a client’s money when such management is mandated 
by the client’s service plan; and  
 
c. Shall keep funds received from the client for management in an individual 
account in the name of the client. 
 
4. When a client is discharged, the facility shall refund the balance of the client’s     
personal funds to the client or representative, if applicable, on the date of 
discharge or no later than the last day of the month of the month of discharge.  
 
<<<PAGE 225>>>
225  
5. In the event of the death of the client, the facility shall refund the balance of 
the client’s personal funds to the executor of the client’s estate. If there is no 
executor, the facility shall refund the balance to the representative or 
responsible party for the client. The refund shall be made within three months 
of the date of death. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 15 FACILITY POLICIES  
 
Rule 4.15.1 The facility shall have:    
 
1. Written policies and procedures approved by the Governing Body that address 
the following: 
 
a. Confidentiality of client information and security of client files; 
 
b. Advertising; 
 
c. Personnel issues including; 
 
i. Orientation, ongoing training, development, supervision, and 
performance evaluation of personnel members; 
 
ii. Written job descriptions for each position including volunteers; 
 
iii. Requirements for a health assessment of personnel prior to 
employment.  These policies shall, at a minimum, require that the 
individual has no evidence of active tuberculosis and is re-evaluated as 
recommended by the Mississippi State Department of Health; 
 
iv. Abuse prevention and reporting procedures that include what 
constitutes abuse, how to prevent it and requirement that all personnel 
report any incident of abuse or mistreatment to the director or his/her 
designee, whether that abuse or neglect is done by another staff 
member, a family member, a client, or any other person; and 
 
v. Criteria for determining employment based on the results of a criminal 
history check. 
 
d. Client’s rights; 
 
e. A grievance procedure to include documentation of grievances, 
investigation, resolution and response to complainant in a timely manner, 
time frame in which facility will respond, and an appeals process for 
grievances; 
<<<PAGE 226>>>
226  
 
f. Safekeeping of personal possessions, if applicable; 
 
g. Clients’ funds, if applicable; 
 
h. Emergency and evacuation procedures; 
 
i. Abuse and neglect, and documentation and reporting of same; 
 
j. Incidents and accidents and documentation of same; 
 
k. Admissions, transfers and discharge procedures;  
 
l. Medication administration; 
 
m. Minutes of formal Governing Body meetings; 
 
n. Organizational chart of the facility; and 
 
o. Written leases, contracts, and purchase-of-service agreements (including 
all appropriate credentials) to which the facility is a party. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.2 Organizational Communication. 
 
1. A facility shall establish procedures to assure written communication among 
personnel to provide continuity of services to all clients. 
 
2. Direct care staff shall have access to information concerning clients that is 
necessary for effective performance of the employee’s assigned tasks. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.3 Incidents/Accident. 
 
1. The facility shall have written procedures for the reporting and documentation 
of unusual incidents and other situations or circumstances affecting the health, 
safety or well-being of a client or clients.  (i.e. death of unnatural causes, 
injuries, fights or physical confrontations, situations requiring the use of 
passive physical restraints, suspected incidents of abuse or neglect). 
 
a. Such procedures shall ensure timely verbal reporting to the Director or 
designee and a preliminary verbal report to the State Licensing agency 
within twenty-four (24) hours of the incident.  A written report shall be 
submitted to the licensing agency within seventy-two (72) hours. 
<<<PAGE 227>>>
227  
 
b. Incidents or accidents shall be documented in the client record. An 
incident report shall be maintained by the facility. 
 
2. Incident/Accident Report.  When and if an incident occurs, a detailed report of 
the incident shall be made.  At a minimum, the incident report shall contain 
the following: 
 
a. Circumstances under which the incident occurred; names of clients, staff 
and others involved; 
 
b. Date and time the incident occurred; 
 
c. Where the incident occurred (bathroom, bedroom, street, lawn, etc.); 
 
d. Immediate treatment and follow-up care; 
 
e. Name and address of witnesses and their statements; 
 
f. Date and time family or representative was notified; 
 
g. Symptoms of pain and injury discussed with the physician; to include date 
and time the physician was notified; and 
 
h. Signatures of the staff completing the report, client, and Director. 
 
3. When an incident results in death of a client or involves abuse, neglect, or 
exploitation of a client or entails any serious threat to the client’s health, 
safety or well-being, the facility shall: 
 
a. Immediately report verbally to the Director and submit a preliminary 
written report within twenty-four (24) hours of the incident; 
 
b. Within twenty-four hours of the suspected incident notify the MSDH, 
licensing agency, and the attorney general’s office, as well as local law 
enforcement in accordance with State law and the Vulnerable Persons Act, 
with written notification to the above agencies to follow within seventy-
two hours of the suspected incident; 
 
c. Immediately notify the family or representative of the client; 
 
d. Provide follow-up written reports within 72 hours of the completed 
investigation to all the above persons and agencies; 
 
e. Take appropriate corrective actions to prevent future incidents; and 
 
<<<PAGE 228>>>
228  
f. Document compliance with the above procedures for each incident. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.4 Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation.  The facility shall have comprehensive 
written procedures concerning client abuse and neglect to include provisions for: 
 
1. Training and maintaining staff awareness of abuse prevention, current 
definitions of abuse and neglect, reporting requirements and applicable laws; 
 
2. Ensuring that procedures  for reporting critical incidents involving abuse and 
neglect are followed; 
 
3. Ensuring that the Director completes an investigation report within five (5) 
working days; 
 
4. Ensuring that the client and/or reporter of the abuse is protected from potential 
harassment during the investigation; and 
 
5. Protecting clients from abuse/neglect and/or injury inflicted by other clients, 
staff or third parties.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.5 Clients' Rights. Rights and licensed facility rules must be in writing and be 
made available to all clients, employees, responsible parties, and must be posted 
in the facility for public viewing. Each client shall:   
 
1. Not be deprived of civil or legal rights; 
 
2. Not be denied admission, segregated or otherwise subjected to 
discrimination on the basis of race, sex, handicap, creed, national 
background or ancestry; a facility that is a religious organization may limit 
admissions to its own adherents; 
 
3. Live within the least restrictive environment possible in order to retain their 
individuality and personal freedom. Staff shall knock and request entrance 
before entering any bedroom; 
 
4. Be treated as individuals and with dignity, be assured choice and privacy and 
the opportunity to act autonomously, take risks to enhance independence, and 
share responsibility for decisions; 
 
5. Be allowed to participate and have family participate, if desired, in the 
planning of activities and services; 
 
<<<PAGE 229>>>
229  
6. Receive or refuse care and services that are adequate, appropriate, and in 
compliance with conditions of residency, relevant federal and State laws and 
rules and regulations; 
 
7. Be free from mental, emotional, and physical abuse and neglect and assured 
that no chemical restraints will be used; 
 
8. Have records and other information kept confidential and released only with a 
client’s or legal guardian’s expressed written consent or in accordance with 
state law; 
 
9. Have a service animal for medical reasons; 
 
10. Have visitors of their choice, as long as such does not infringe upon the rights 
of others; 
 
11. Have access to private telephone communications; 
 
12. Send and receive mail promptly and unopened; 
 
13. Furnish their own rooms, use and maintain personal clothing and 
possessions as space permits; 
 
14. Have the right to manage his/her personal financial affairs, or is given at 
least a quarterly accounting of financial transactions made on his/her behalf 
should the facility accept the written delegation from the client or from 
his/her responsible party of this responsibility to the facility for any period 
of time in conformance with State Law.   
 
15. Be free from restraint except by order of a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant, or unless it is determined that the client is a 
threat to himself or to others. Physical and chemical restraints shall be used 
for medical conditions that warrant the use of a restraint. Restraint is not to 
be used for discipline or staff convenience. The RBIR must have policies 
and procedures addressing the use of and monitoring of restraints. A 
physician’s order for restraint must be countersigned physician, nurse 
practitioner or physician assistant within 24 hours of the emergency 
application of the restraint; 
 
16. Have freedom to participate in accessible community activities and in social, 
political, medical, and religious activities or to have freedom to refuse such 
participation; 
 
17. Arrange for third-party services at their own expense should such not be 
available through the facility provided the client remains in compliance with 
the conditions of residency; 
<<<PAGE 230>>>
230  
 
18. Be informed of grievance process and procedures and to receive response to 
grievances without fear of reprisal. To voice grievances and suggest changes 
in policies and services to either staff or outside representatives without fear 
of  reprisal or other retaliation; 
 
19. Be given written notice of not less than thirty (30) days prior to discharge 
from the facility, except in life-threatening emergencies and when the client is 
a danger to him/her self or to others; 
 
20. Remain in the current facility, foregoing a recommended transfer to obtain 
additional services, if a mutually agreed upon risk agreement is signed by the 
client, the responsible representative (if any) and the facility provided such 
does not place the facility in conflict with these or other laws or regulations; 
 
21. Receive at least a 24 hour notice prior to a change in room/unit. The client 
shall be informed of the reason for the move and/or shall be informed when 
their roommate is being changed; 
 
22. Live in a physical environment which ensures their physical and emotional 
security and well-being; 
 
23. Retain the services of his/her own personal physician, dentist or other health 
care facility; 
 
24. Be provided confidentiality and privacy concerning his/her medical and dental 
condition and treatment;  
 
25. Select the pharmacy or pharmacist of their choice; 
 
26. Not be required to perform services for the RBIR that are not included for 
therapeutic purposes in their individual program plan; and 
 
27. Have the right to associate and communicate privately with persons of his 
choice, may join with other clients or individuals within or outside of the 
RBIR to work for improvements in client care, unless medically 
contraindicated (as documented by his physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record). 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.6 Grievance Procedure.  A facility shall establish and have written grievance 
procedures to include, but not limited to: 
 
1. A formal process to present grievances; 
 
<<<PAGE 231>>>
231  
2. A formal appeals process for grievances; and, 
 
3. A process to respond to client requests and/or client grievances in a timely 
manner, and the time frames in which the facility will respond. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.15.7 Photographs.  A facility shall have written policies and procedures regarding the 
photographing and audio or audiovisual recordings of clients for the purposes of 
advertising. 
 
1. No client shall be photographed or recorded without the client’s or 
representative’s prior informed written consent.  Such consent cannot be made 
a condition for admission into, remaining in, or participating fully in the 
activities of the facility.  Consent agreements must clearly notify the client of 
his/her rights under this regulation and must specify precisely what use is to 
be made of the photograph or recordings. Consents are valid for a maximum 
of one year from the date of execution.  Clients are free to revoke such 
agreements at any time, either orally or in writing. 
 
2. All photographs and recordings shall be used in a way that respects the dignity 
and confidentiality of the client. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 16   MEDICAL AND PERSONAL CARE SERVICES 
 
Rule 4.16.1 Medical Evaluation.    
 
3. Each person admitted to a licensed facility shall have admission orders 
and a health and physical examination prescribed by a licensed physician 
or certified nurse practitioner/physician assistant within thirty (30) days 
prior to admission.   The examination, which shall be reviewed by the 
Medical Director,  shall include, at a minimum: 
 
a. Review of physical health, psycho-social status, cognitive status, and 
determination of services necessary to meet those needs; 
 
b. A summary of the client’s health needs, if any, including medication, 
treatment and special diet orders; 
 
4. An annual health and physical update by a physician and/or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant  shall be completed. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 232>>>
232  
Rule 4.16.2 Tuberculosis  (TB):   Admission  Requirements to Rule out Active 
Tuberculosis (TB). 
 
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior 
to the client's admission to the licensed facility: 
 
a. TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed Physician, 
Physician's Assistant or a Licensed Nurse Practitioner, and 
 
b. A chest x-ray taken and have a written interpretation. 
 
2. Admission to the facility shall be based on the results of the required 
tests as follows: 
 
a. Clients with  an  abnormal  chest  x-ray  and/or  signs and  symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two-step Mantoux tuberculin 
skin test (TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA 
(blood test) drawn and results documented within 30 days prior to the 
client's admission to the licensed facility.  Evaluation for active TB 
shall be at the recommendation   of the MSDH and shall be prior to 
admission . If TB is ruled out and the first step  of the TST is negative, 
the second step of the two-step TST shall be completed  and 
documented within 10-21 days of admission. TST administration and  
reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) 
is done, TST (first and/or second step) is not done. 
 
b. Clients with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or  symptoms  of  TB 
shall have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with 
the initial step of a the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 
days prior to the day of admission. IF TST is done, the second step 
shall be completed within 10-21 days of the first step. TST 
administration and reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an 
IGRA (blood test) is done, a TST is not done (first or second step).  
 
c. Clients with a significant TST OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall 
be monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB 
(cough, sputum production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night 
sweats, especially if the symptoms have lasted longer than three 
weeks) and if these symptoms develop, shall have an evaluation for 
TB per the recommendations of the MSDH  within 72 hours. 
 
d. Clients with a non significant TST or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual tuberculosis testing within thirty 
(30) days of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing 
is used, IGRA testing should continue to be used rather than TST 
<<<PAGE 233>>>
233  
testing. 
 
e. Clients with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood 
test) on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse 
practitioner or physician or physician's assistant. 
 
f. Active or suspected active TB Admission. If a client has or is 
suspected to have active TB, prior written approval for 
admission to the facility is required from the MSDH TB State 
Medical Consultant. 
 
g. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
 
i. Client has prior documentation of a significant TST/positive 
IGRA. 
 
ii. Client has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment 
regimen for latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
 
iii. Client is excluded by a licensed physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant due to medical contraindications. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.16.3 Transfer to another facility or return of a client to respite care shall be based 
on the above tests (Rule 47.12.3) if done within the past 12 months and the 
client has no signs and symptoms of TB . 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.16.4 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office. If a client has signs or 
symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the facility shall notify the 
MSDH, the hospital, transporting staff and the physician's office prior to 
transferring the client to a hospital. Appropriate isolation and evaluation shall 
be the responsibility of the hospital and physician.  If a client has or is 
suspected to have active TB, prior written approval for admission or 
readmission to the facility is required from the MSDH TB State Consultant. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.16.5 Rehabilitative Services. Clients shall be provided rehabilitative services, as 
identified in the written individualized plan of care. Such rehabilitative services 
require the written orders of an attending physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. 
 
1. The therapies shall be provided by a qualified therapist. 
<<<PAGE 234>>>
234  
 
2. Appropriate equipment and supplies shall be provided. 
 
3. Each client’s medical record shall contain written evidence that services are 
provided in accordance with the written orders of an attending physician or 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 17  FOOD SERVICE  
 
Rule 4.17.1 Meals. The licensed facility shall provide clients with well-planned, attractive, 
and satisfying meals at least three (3) times daily, seven (7) days a week, which 
will meet their nutritional, social, emotional and therapeutic needs. The daily 
food allowance shall meet the current recommended dietary allowances. 
 
1. Meals shall be planned one (1) week in advance.  Current menus must 
be posted and dated. A record of meals served shall be maintained for a 
one (1) month period.  
 
2. A record of all food purchases shall be maintained in the licensed facility 
for a one (1) month period. 
 
a. All meals for clients who require therapeutic diets shall be planned 
by a Licensed Dietitian.  If a therapeutic diet is prescribed by the 
physician for the client, the licensed dietitian shall visit the licensed 
facility at a minimum of once every thirty (30) days, and shall file a 
consulting report with the licensed facility. 
 
3. Meals should meet religious and ethnic preferences. 
 
4. Meals should meet clients’ temporary schedule changes as well as clients’ 
preference (e.g. to skip a meal or prepare a simple late breakfast) 
 
5. Facilities should make snacks, fruits, and beverages available to clients 
when requested. 
 
6. Staff shall be available in the dining area to serve the food and to give 
individual attention as needed. 
 
7. Written reports of inspection by the Mississippi State Department of Health 
shall be kept on file in the facility. 
 
8. Specific times for serving meals shall be established and posted. 
 
9. Meals shall be prepared and served in a manner that assures that they are 
<<<PAGE 235>>>
235  
appetizing, attractive, and nutritional and that promotes socialization among 
the clients. 
 
10. Food shall be prepared by methods that conserve the nutritive value, flavor, 
and appearance.  It shall be palatable, properly prepared and sufficient in 
quantity and quality.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.2 Menus. 
 
1. Menus shall be planned and written at least one week in advance and dated as 
served.  The current week’s menu shall be posted in a conspicuous place in 
the facility. 
 
2. The facility shall furnish medically prescribed diets to clients in accordance 
with their service plan.  These menus shall be planned or approved by a 
Registered licensed Dietician. 
 
3. Records of all menus as served shall be kept on file for at least 30 days. 
 
4. All substitutions made on the master menu shall be recorded in writing. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.3 Food Supplies. 
 
1. All food in the facility shall be safe for human consumption. 
 
2. Grade “A” pasteurized fluid milk and fluid milk products shall be used or 
served. Dry milk products may not be used, except for cooking purposes. 
 
3. Wild game or home canned foods shall not be served; 
 
4. Other than fresh or frozen vegetables and fruit, all foods must be from 
commercial sources. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.4 Food Protection. 
 
1. If food is prepared in a central kitchen and delivered to separate facilities, 
provisions shall be made for proper maintenance of food temperatures and a 
sanitary mode of transportation. 
 
2. Facility refrigerator(s) shall be maintained at a temperature of 45 degrees F or 
<<<PAGE 236>>>
236  
below.  Freezers shall be maintained at a temperature of 0 degrees F or below.  
Thermometers shall be provided for all refrigerators and freezers. 
 
3. Food stored in the refrigerator shall be covered and dated.  
 
4. Pets are not allowed in food preparation and services areas. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.5 Ice and Drinking Water. 
 
1. The water supply shall be adequate, of a safe sanitary quality and from an 
approved source.  Clean sanitary drinking water shall be available and 
accessible in adequate amounts at all times.   
 
2. The ice scoop shall be maintained in a sanitary manner. The handle of the ice 
scoop should not come into contact with the ice. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.6 Physical Facilities.hysical Facilities. 
 
1. A licensed facility with fifteen (15) or fewer clients shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in the facility Inspection Report issued by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
2. The facility shall have kitchens and dining rooms appropriately furnished and 
adequate to serve the number of clients residing in the facility in a 
comfortable environment.  Dining room(s) may be sized to accommodate 
clients in either one or two sittings. Kitchens and dining facilities shall meet 
all applicable sanitation and safety standards. 
 
3. The facility shall have a central or a warming kitchen that shall be well lighted 
and ventilated. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.17.7 Dietary Staffingietary Staffing. 
 
1. All employees engaged in handling, preparation and/or serving of food 
shall wear clean clothing at all times. 
 
2. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wash 
their hands thoroughly before starting to work and immediately after 
contact with any soiled matter. 
<<<PAGE 237>>>
237  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 18   DRUG HANDLING 
 
Rule 4.18.1 Restrictions. Licensed facilities shall meet Mississippi State Board of 
Pharmacy requirements for the storage and dispensing of prescription 
medications. Schedule II Narcotics as defined in the Uniform Control 
Substances Law may only be allowed in a brain injury facility if they are 
administered or stored utilizing proper procedures under the direct supervision 
of a licensed physician or nurse. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.18.2 Labeling.  The medications of all clients shall be clearly labeled. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.18.3 Storage of Prescription Medications. Proper storage of all prescription 
medications shall be provided. 
 
1. All clients' prescription medications shall be stored in a secured area. The 
area shall be kept locked when not in use, with responsibility for the key 
designated in writing. 
 
2. The prescription medication storage area shall be well-lighted, well-
ventilated, and kept in a clean and orderly fashion. The temperature of 
the medication storage area should not exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit at 
any time. 
 
3. A refrigerator shall be provided for the storage of prescription medications 
requiring refrigeration.  If the refrigerator houses food or beverages, the 
clients' prescription medications shall be stored in a covered container or 
separate compartment. All refrigerators shall be equipped with 
thermometers. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.18.4 Responsibility. A non-client employee, appointed by the Director, shall be 
responsible for the following: 
 
1. Storage of prescription medications. 
 
2. Keeping a current prescription medication list, including frequency and 
dosage, which shall be updated at least every thirty (30) days, or with any 
significant change. 
<<<PAGE 238>>>
238  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.18.5 Disposal of Unused Prescription Medications. In the event any prescription 
medication is no longer in use for any reason, it shall be disposed of in 
accordance with the regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 19 SOCIAL SERVICES 
 
Rule 4.19.1 The licensed facility shall make provisions for referring clients with social and 
emotional needs to an appropriate social services agency. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 20  CLIENT ACTIVITIES 
 
Rule 4.20.1 Activities Program.  An activities program shall be in effect which is 
appropriate to the needs and interests of each client.   
 
1. The facility shall have a range of indoor and outdoor recreational and leisure 
opportunities to meet the needs and preferences of clients. 
 
2. Adequate and activity-appropriate space shall be provided for the various 
client activities. 
 
3. Activities shall be provided on a daily basis. 
 
4. Available community resources shall be utilized in the activities program. 
 
5. Supplies shall be available to implement an adequate activities program. 
 
6. A non-client employee may be responsible for the activities program. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 21  PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
 
Rule 4.21.1 General. 
 
1. The facility shall be designed throughout to meet the accessibility needs of the 
clients. 
  
2. Handrails and sufficient lighting shall be integrated into public areas, as 
<<<PAGE 239>>>
239  
appropriate, to assist clients in ambulation. 
 
3. Sufficient lighting shall be provided for general lighting purposes and for 
reading in bedrooms and common areas. 
 
4. Night lights for corridors, emergency situations and the exterior shall be 
provided as needed for security and safety. 
 
5. Windows used for ventilation to the outside and exterior doors used for 
ventilation shall be screened and in good repair. 
 
6. The facility shall be constructed, equipped, and maintained in good repair and 
kept free of hazards. 
 
7. The facility shall have sufficient and separate storage space for administration 
records, cleaning supplies (janitorial), food service (supplies), lawn 
maintenance (equipment) and locked areas for medications.  Poisonous and 
toxic materials shall be identified, and stored in a separate cabinet that is used 
for no other purpose. 
 
8. There shall be evidence of routine maintenance and cleaning programs in all 
areas of the facility.  The facility shall replace or repair broken, worn or 
defective furnishings and equipment promptly. 
 
9. The facility shall be furnished according to the activities offered.  Furniture 
shall be of good repair and appropriate for the functional program. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.2 Exterior Space. 
 
1. A facility shall ensure that the grounds and any structure thereon shall be 
maintained in good repair and free from any hazard to health and safety. 
 
a. Garbage shall be stored securely in covered containers and shall be 
removed on a regular basis. 
 
b. Trash collection receptacles and incinerators shall be separate from 
outdoor recreational space. 
 
c. Areas determined to be unsafe, including but not limited to steep grades, 
cliffs, open pits, swimming pools, high voltage boosters or high speed 
roads shall be fenced off or have natural barriers to protect clients. 
 
d. Fences shall be in good repair. 
 
<<<PAGE 240>>>
240  
2. A facility shall provide clients access to outdoor space designated for 
recreational use.  The parking lot shall not double as recreational space. 
 
3. The facility’s address or name shall be displayed so as to be easily visible 
from the street. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.3  Required Areas/Rooms.  The following areas/rooms are required to be provided 
in a licensed facility: 
 
1. Bedrooms; 
 
2. Living room; 
 
3. Dining Area; 
 
4. Toilet and bathing facilities; 
 
5. Laundry; and 
 
6. Kitchen. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-ll -13 
 
Rule 4.21.4 Bedrooms. 
 
1. Location. All client bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not 
be below grade. Window areas shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the 
floor area. The window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches from 
the floor. Windows shall be operable. 
 
a. Client bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of 
unpleasant odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
 
b. Client bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor. 
In no case shall a client bedroom be used for access to another client 
bedroom nor shall a client bedroom be used for access to a required 
outside exit. 
 
c. All client bedrooms shall be so located that the client can travel from 
his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or toilet or 
bathing facility without having to go through another client’s 
bedroom. 
 
d. A facility shall ensure that each single occupancy bedroom has a floor 
<<<PAGE 241>>>
241  
area of at least one hundred (100) net square feet, exclusive of 
bathrooms, closets or storage space; and that each multiple occupancy 
bedroom has a floor area of at least eighty (80) net square feet for each 
client. There shall be no more than two (2) clients per bedroom. The 
facility shall strive to maintain a homelike environment. 
 
2. Furnishings. 
 
a. Single beds shall be provided with good grade mattresses at least four (4) 
inches thick. Cots and roll-away beds shall not be used.  Each client in the 
facility shall have his/her own bed. Cots, bunk beds or portable beds are 
not allowed. 
 
b. Each bed shall be equipped with a pillow and clean linens to include 
sheets, pillow cases, spreads and blankets. An adequate supply of such 
linens shall be provided at all times to allow for a change of linen at least 
once a week. 
 
c. Chest of drawers or similar adequate storage space shall be 
provided for the clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings of 
each client. 
 
d. Adequate closet space shall be provided for each client. 
 
e. An adequate number of comfortable, sturdy chairs shall be 
provided. 
 
f. The opportunity for personal expression shall be permitted. 
 
g. A client shall be permitted to use personal furnishings in lieu of 
those provided by the licensed facility, when practical. 
 
3. Common Space. 
 
a. The facility shall provide common areas to allow clients the opportunity 
for socialization. 
 
b. Common areas for leisure shall be at least sixty (60) square feet per person 
per licensed capacity. 
 
c. Dining rooms and leisure areas shall be available for use by clients at 
appropriate times to provide periods of social and diversified individual 
and group activities.  
 
d. The facility’s common areas shall be accessible and maintained to provide 
a clean, safe, and attractive environment for the clients. 
<<<PAGE 242>>>
242  
 
e. Space used for administration, sleeping, or passage shall not be considered 
as dining or leisure space. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.5 Living Room. Living rooms, dayrooms, and/or recreation rooms shall be 
provided for clients and visitors. Each licensed facility shall provide at least 
two (2) areas for this purpose: one (1) for small groups such as a private visit 
with relatives and friends; and one (1) for larger group activities. The living 
room must be equipped with attractive, functional, and comfortable furniture 
in sufficient number to accommodate all clients.  A minimum of 18 square 
feet per bed shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.6 Dining Area. A dining area shall be provided which shall be adequate to seat all 
clients at the same meal seating. The dining area may also be used for social, 
recreational, and/or religious services when not in use as a dining facility. A 
minimum of 15 square feet per client shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.7 Toilet and Bathing Facilities. 
 
1. There shall be adequate toilet, bathing and hand washing facilities in 
accordance with the current edition of the State Sanitary Code.  
 
2. One bathroom shall serve no more than four beds. 
 
3. Each bathroom shall contain wash basins with hot and cold water, flush toilets 
and bath or shower facilities with hot and cold water according to client care 
needs. 
 
4. Bathrooms shall be located so that they open into a hallway, common area or 
directly into the bedroom. If the bathroom only opens directly into a bedroom, 
it shall be for the use of the occupants of that bedroom only. 
 
5. Each bathroom shall be properly equipped with toilet paper, towels, soap, and 
other items required for personal hygiene, unless clients are individually given 
such items. Tubs and showers shall have slip-proof surfaces. 
 
6. A facility shall provide toilets, baths and showers which allow for individual 
privacy, unless clients require assistance for care. 
 
<<<PAGE 243>>>
243  
7. A facility’s bathrooms shall contain mirrors secured to the walls at convenient 
heights and other furnishings necessary to meet the client’s basic hygienic and 
grooming needs. 
 
8. A facility’s bathrooms shall be equipped to facilitate maximum self-help by 
clients. Bathtubs and showers shall be equipped with grab bars, towel racks 
and non-glass shower enclosures. Commodes shall be equipped with grab 
bars. 
 
9. Toilets, wash basins and other plumbing or sanitary areas in a facility shall be 
maintained in good operating condition at all times. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.21.8 Laundry.  The facility shall have provisions to provide laundry services that 
are adequate to handle the needs of the clients, including those with 
incontinence. 
 
1. The laundry shall be located in a specifically designated area and shall 
have adequate space for sorting, processing and storage of soiled 
material. Laundry rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall not open 
directly into a client's bedroom or food service area. Soiled materials shall 
not be transported through the food service area.  The laundry area shall 
be kept clean and orderly. 
 
2. If a commercial laundry is used, separate storage areas shall be provided 
for clean and soiled linens. 
 
3.  Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for dryers. 
 
4. When laundry chutes are provided, they shall have a minimum diameter of 
two (2) feet; and shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and drain. 
 
5. A functional automatic sprinkler shall be provided at the top of the 
laundry chute and in any receiving room for a chute. 
 
6. A self-closing door shall be provided at the bottom of the chute. 
 
7. Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately perform the laundry 
needs of the facility. The equipment shall be installed to comply with all 
local and state codes. 
 
8. There shall be a separate and designated area for the storage of clean linen. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 244>>>
244  
Rule 4.21.9 Kitchen. In facilities with 16 or more clients, commercial cooking equipment 
must comply with NFPA 96, "Standard for Ventilation Control and Protection 
of Commercial Cooking Operations".  
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 22 PHYSICAL PLANT:   GENERAL 
 
Rule 4.22.1 Licensed Facility Classification.  To qualify for a license, the facility shall 
be designed to serve the type of clients to be admitted and shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.2 Location.  Facilities shall be located so that they are free from undue noise, 
smoke, dust, or foul odors.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.3 Site.  The proposed site for the facility must be approved by the licensing 
agency. Factors to be considered in approving a site shall be convenient to 
medical and hospital services, an approved water supply and sewage disposal, 
community services, services of an organized fire department, and the 
availability of labor supply. No more than one-third (1/3) of a site shall be 
covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the licensing agency. 
Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have a living 
room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate for 
lack of required outside area. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.4 Local Restrictions. The site and structure of all licensed facilities shall 
comply with local building, fire, and zoning ordinances. Proof of compliance 
shall be submitted to the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.5 Transportation.   Licensed facilities shall be located on streets or roads which 
are passable at all times.  
 
1. The facility shall have the capacity to provide or to arrange transportation as 
necessary for the following: 
 
a. Medical services, including ancillary services for medically related care 
(e.g., physician, pharmacist, therapist, podiatrist); 
 
<<<PAGE 245>>>
245  
b. Personal services, including barber/beauty services; 
 
c. Personal errands; and 
 
d. Social/recreational opportunities. 
 
2. All vehicles used to transport clients shall maintain current 
licenses/registrations.  
 
3. When transportation services are provided by the facility, whether directly or 
by third party contract, the facility shall document and ensure that each driver 
has a valid driver’s license, that drivers have an insurable driving record, and 
that they are trained/experienced in assisting clients. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.6 Communications. There shall be not less than one telephone in the licensed   
facility and such additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in 
the event of fire or other emergency. The telephone shall be listed under the 
official licensed name of the facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.7 Occupancy. No part of the licensed facility may be rented, leased, or used 
for any purpose not related to the operation of the licensed facility. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.22.8 Basement. The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or 
more of its clear height  is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining   
the building on all sides. No client shall be housed on any floor that is below 
ground level. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 23 SUBMISSIONS OF ARCHITECTURAL PLANS AND 
SPECIFICATIONS  
 
Rule 4.23.1 Minor Alterations and Remodeling. It is not necessary for an entity to 
submit plans to Health Facilities provided such are just minor alterations and 
remodeling which  do not affect the structural integrity of the building, change 
functional operation, affect fire safety, or affect the license bed capacity. A 
detailed explanation of the proposed alteration or remodeling must be 
submitted to and approved by the licensing agency prior to such renovation. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 246>>>
246  
 
Rule 4.23.2 First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans. First stage or preliminary 
plans shall include: 
 
1. Plot plan showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed 
building and any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, 
sidewalks, railroads, etc., all properly designated; and size, characteristics, 
and location of all existing public utilities. 
 
2. Floor plan showing over-all dimensions of building(s); location, size, and 
purpose of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other 
openings with swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of all 
corridors and hallways; and location of stairs, elevators, dumbwaiters, 
vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
 
3. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.3 Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications. 
 
1.   Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include: 
 
a. Architectural drawings 
 
b. Structural drawings 
 
c. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
 
d. Electrical drawings 
 
e. Detailed specifications 
 
2. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained 
from the licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual 
construction. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.4 Preparation of Plans and Specifications. The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by 
the licensing agency. 
 
<<<PAGE 247>>>
247  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.5 Contract Modifications. Any contract modification which affects or changes 
the     function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved 
by the licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.6 Notification of Start of Construction. The licensing agency shall be 
informed in writing at the time construction is begun. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.7 Inspections. The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to inspect work in progress and the owner shall ascertain that 
proper facilities are made available for such access and inspection. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.28.8 Limit of Approval.  If construction is delayed for a period exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a 
new evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.23.9 Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal.  The water supply and 
sewerage disposal shall be approved by the local county health department or 
the appropriate division within the Mississippi State Department of Health. No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall 
be installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended   until 
complete plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension 
have been so approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and 
final determination. 
 
SOURCE: Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 24 GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
 
Rule 4.24.1 Structural Soundness and Repair.  The building shall be structurally sound,   
free from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at 
sufficient intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out.  Walls and ceilings 
of hazardous areas shall be one (1) hour fire resistance rating. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 248>>>
248  
Rule 4.24.2 Heating and Cooling Systems. Adequate heating and cooling systems shall be 
provided to maintain inside temperature between 68 degrees Fahrenheit and 78 
degrees Fahrenheit depending on the season. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.3 Lighting. Each client's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum brightness of ten (10) foot 
candles of lighting for general use in clients' rooms and a minimum brightness 
of thirty (30) foot candles of lighting for reading purposes. All entrances, 
hallways, stairways, ramps, cellars, attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and 
service units shall have sufficient artificial lighting to prevent accidents and 
promote efficiency of service. Night lights shall be provided in all hallways, 
stairways, toilets, and bathing rooms. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.4 Emergency Lighting. At least one functioning, battery-operated emergency 
light shall be provided in each hallway. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.5 Screens. All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped 
with  tight fitting, full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens. Screen doors shall 
swing out and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.6 Floors. All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks and 
shall be finished so that they can be easily cleaned. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.7 Walls and Ceilings. All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction, 
with an acceptable surface, and shall be maintained in good repair. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.8 Ceiling Height. All ceilings shall have a height of at least seven (7) feet, 
except that a height of six (6) feet six (6) inches may be approved for 
hallways or toilets and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.9 Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of 
clients, shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in twelve (12) feet of run, shall be 
<<<PAGE 249>>>
249  
furnished with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both 
sides. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.10 Door Swing. Exit doors, other than from a living unit, shall swing in the 
direction of exit from the structure. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.11 Floor Levels. All differences in floor levels within the building shall be 
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) six-inch risers, ramps, or 
inclines, and shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.12 Space Under Stairs.  Space under stairs shall not be used for storage purposes. 
All walls and doors shall meet the same fire rating as the stairwell. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.13 Interior Finish and Floor Coverings. Interior finish and decorative 
material shall be not less than Class B and floor covering shall have a flame 
spread not to exceed 75. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.14 Fire Extinguishers.  Fire extinguishers of number, type, and capacity 
appropriate to the need of the facility and shall be provided for each floor and 
for special fire hazard areas such as kitchen, laundry, and mechanical room. All 
extinguishers shall be of a type approved by the licensing agency.  A 
vaporizing liquid extinguisher (such as carbon tetrachloride) will not be 
approved for use inside the building. Extinguishers shall be inspected and 
serviced periodically as recommended by the manufacturer. The date of 
inspection shall be entered on a tag attached to the  extinguisher and signed 
by a reliable inspector such as the local fire marshal or    representative of a fire 
extinguisher servicing company. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.15 Smoke Detectors. Smoke detectors shall be installed in each hallway no 
more than thirty (30) feet apart and in each bedroom and storage room. 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.16 Trash Chutes.  Trash chutes are prohibited . 
<<<PAGE 250>>>
250  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.17 Housekeeping and Maintenance. The interior and exterior of the 
licensed facility shall be maintained in an attractive, safe and sanitary 
condition. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.18 Pest Control. Pest control inspections and, if necessary, treatments, shall be 
made to control pests, vermin, insects and rodents, at a minimum of once 
every ninety (90) days, by a company that is licensed by the State of 
Mississippi. The licensing agency may, in its discretion, require more 
frequent inspections and treatments. The inspection and treatment reports 
shall be maintained at the licensed facility. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.19 Water Temperature. The facility shall have a system in place to control 
water temperature to prevent burns and ensure client safety.  The temperature 
of hot water at plumbing fixtures used by clients shall not exceed 115 degrees 
Fahrenheit and no less than 100 degrees Fahrenheit.  Hot water temperature 
for each faucet shall be monitored on a weekly basis.  Documentation shall be 
maintained in the facility for 12 months.   
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.20 Combustion Air. Combustion air to all equipment requiring such must come 
from the outside. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.24.21 Basement. The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or  
more of its clear height  is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining   
the building on all sides. No client shall be housed on any floor that is below 
ground level. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 25 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS  
 
Rule 4.25.1 Building Protection. Facilities shall be constructed to have: 
 
1. Automatic Sprinklers Required. Facilities licensed after the effective 
date of  these regulations shall be protected throughout by a supervised 
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current 
<<<PAGE 251>>>
251  
edition of NFPA 13, Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 
 
2. One hour fire resistance rating as prescribed by the current edition of 
the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standard 220, types of 
Building Construction. (Example: Type II (111), or Type V (l l l). 
 
3. No mobile structures are acceptable for housing clients. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.2 Multi-story Building. Elevator Required.  No client shall be housed in a 
building three stories and above unless the building is equipped with an 
elevator. The minimum cab size of the elevator shall be approximately six 
(6) feet eight (8) inches by five (5) feet and constructed of metal. The 
width of the shaft door shall be at least three (3) feet six (6) inches. The 
load weight capacity shall not be less than 2,500 pounds.  The elevator 
shaft shall be enclosed by construction of not less than a two-hour fire 
resistive rating.  Elevators shall not be counted as required exits. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.3 Hazardous Areas and Combustible Storage.  Heating apparatus and 
boiler and furnace rooms, basements, or attics used for the storage of 
combustible material  and workrooms shall be classified as hazardous 
areas and shall be separated from other areas by construction having a fire 
resistive rating of at least one (1) hour. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.4 Stairs.  Stairs shall be enclosed with at least one-hour fire rated 
construction. 
 
1. Handrails shall be provided on both sides of the stairs. 
 
2. The width of the stairs shall not be less than forty-four (44) inches. 
 
3. The stairs shall be well lighted at all times. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.5 Exit Doors.  Exit doors shall meet the following: 
 
1. At least two (2) remotely located exits shall be provided for each 
occupied   story of a facility. 
 
2. Dead end hallways in excess of twenty (20) feet are not allowed. 
<<<PAGE 252>>>
252  
 
3. Doors to the exterior shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide 
and egress shall not be impeded by being locked. 
 
4. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct 
the travel along any required exit.  
 
5. Doors leading to stairways shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches 
wide. 
 
6. Revolving doors shall not be used as required exits. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.6 Hallways and Passageways. 
 
1. Hallways and passageways shall be eight (8) feet wide and shall be 
kept unobstructed. 
 
2. Hallways and passageways which lead to the outside from any required 
stairway shall be enclosed as required for stairways. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.25.7 Mechanical and Electric Systems.  All mechanical, electrical, plumbing, 
heating, air-conditioning, and water systems shall meet the requirements of 
local codes and ordinances as well as the applicable regulation of the licensing 
agency. Where there are no local codes or ordinances, the most current 
versions of the following codes and recommendations shall govern: 
 
1. National Electrical Code.  
 
2. National Plumbing Code. 
 
3. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning 
Engineers, Inc. 
 
4. Recommendations of the American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers. 
 
5. Recommendations of American Gas Association. 
 
6. National Fire Protection Association. The heating of licensed facilities 
shall be restricted to steam, hot water, or warm air systems employing 
central heating plants, or Underwriters Laboratories approved electric 
heating. The use of portable heaters of any kind is prohibited with the 
<<<PAGE 253>>>
253  
following exceptions: 
 
a. Gas heaters must meet all of the following: 
 
i. A circulating type with a recessed enclosed flame so designed that 
clothing or other inflammable material cannot be ignited. 
 
ii. Equipped with a safety pilot light. 
 
iii. Properly vented to the outside. 
 
iv. Approved by American Gas Association or Underwriters 
Laboratories. 
 
b. An approved type of electrical heater such as wall insert type.  
 
7. Lighting (except for battery-operated emergency lighting) shall be restricted 
to electricity. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 26 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP) 
 
Rule 4.26.1 General. Each licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness 
plan utilizing the "All Hazards" approach to emergency and disaster planning. 
The plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of 
terrorism or man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific 
geographical location. The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) 
will be reviewed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, 
Mississippi State Department of Health, or their designates, for conformance with 
the "All Hazards Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan." Particular 
attention shall be given to critical areas of concern which may arise during any 
"all hazards" emergency, whether required to evacuate or to sustain in place. 
Additional plan criteria or a specified EOP format may be required as deemed 
necessary by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) 
critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of Emergency Planning & Response. 
 
2. Resources and Assets 
 
3. Safety and Security 
 
4. Staffing 
<<<PAGE 254>>>
254  
 
5. Utilities 
 
6. Clinical Activities 
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 4.26.2 Plan Content. Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and 
reviewed annually or as directed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and 
Response. Written evidence of current approval or review of provider EOPs, by 
the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all 
applications for facility license renewals. 
 
1. Emergency plans should include, at a minimum: 
 
a. The facility shall have telephone service on a twenty-four hour basis. 
 
b. The facility shall either post telephone numbers of emergency services, 
including the fire department, police department, medical services, poison 
control and ambulance, or else show evidence of an alternate means of 
immediate access to these services. 
 
c. The facility shall have a detailed written plan and procedures including the 
evacuation of residences or sheltering in place as appropriate to meet all 
potential emergencies and disasters such as fire, severe weather, and 
missing clients.  The facility shall implement this plan in the event that an 
emergency or disaster occurs. These emergency and evacuation 
procedures shall include: 
 
i. An agreement with a host or receiving facility for transportation, 
medications, food, and necessary items to be evacuated with clients to 
safe or sheltered areas. Plans that family may evacuate the client when 
possible; 
 
ii. Means for an ongoing safety program including continuous inspection 
of the facility for possible hazards, continuous monitoring of safety 
equipment and investigation of all accidents or emergencies; 
 
iii. The resources to shelter in place, when appropriate; 
 
iv. Transportation arrangements for hospitalization or any other services 
which are appropriate; and 
 
v. Maintenance of a first aid kit for emergencies. 
 
d. The facility shall train all employees in emergency and evacuation 
<<<PAGE 255>>>
255  
procedures in orientation when they begin to work in the facility and 
annually thereafter.   
 
e. The facility shall immediately notify the department and other appropriate 
agencies of any fire, disaster or other emergency that may present a danger 
to clients or require evacuation from the facility.  
 
SOURCE:   Miss.  Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 27 FACILITY FIRE  PREPAREDNESS 
 
Rule 4.27.1 RBIR Fire Preparedness.Fire Preparedness. 
 
1. Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. 
Employees shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
 
2. Written Records. Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
 
3. A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in a conspicuous place and kept 
current.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann.  §43-11-1 
 
CHAPTER 5   MISSISSIPPI POISON CONTROL CENTER ACCREDITATION 
STANDARDS Subchapter 1   AUTHORITY 
Rule 5.1.1 Adoption of Regulation and Standards. By virtue of authority vested in it 
by the Mississippi Code Annotated Section 41-3-15(5)(a), or as otherwise 
amended, the Mississippi State Department of Health does hereby adopt and 
promulgate the following standards and regulations governing accreditation 
of Mississippi Poison Control Center(s). 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 2   DEFINITIONS 
 
Rule 5.2.1 Poison Control Centers. The poison control center is a specialized unit 
providing information on poisoning, in principle to the whole community. The 
primary functions of a poison control center are 1) to enhance the health of the 
lay public by assessing exposures and providing timely information, including 
referral to health care facilities when indicated;  2) to enhance the care of 
poisoned patients by providing timely information on diagnosis and treatment to 
health care professionals and 3) to provide information on potential poisons and 
<<<PAGE 256>>>
256  
chemical hazards to citizens and governmental agencies.  In fulfilling its 
function, poison control centers provide the provision of toxicological 
information and advice, management of poisoning cases, information on the 
provision of laboratory analytical services, toxicovigilance activities, research, 
and education and training in the prevention and treatment of poisoning. As part 
of its role in toxicovigilance, the center advises on and is actively involved in the 
development, implementation, and evaluation of measures for the prevention of 
poisoning. In association with other responsible bodies, it also plays an 
important role in developing contingency plans for, and responding to, chemical 
disasters, in monitoring the adverse effects of drugs, and in handling problems 
of substance abuse. In fulfilling its role and functions, the Mississippi Poison 
Control Center needs to cooperate not only with similar organizations, but also 
with other institutions concerned with prevention of and response to poisons 
center is a specialized unit that advises on, and assists with, the prevention, 
diagnosis and management of poisoning. A poison center answers inquiries 
about exposure to chemical agents, including products, pharmaceuticals, natural 
toxins, pesticides and industrial chemicals. It provides an assessment of whether 
a particular exposure is hazardous, and information on the need for treatment 
and the kind of treatment that should be given. The goal of the poison control 
center for the State of Mississippi is to promote evidence-based, cost-effective 
management of poisoning and to ensure that unnecessary or ineffective 
treatment is minimized. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.2 Accreditation.  The  process  by  which  an  organization  is  deemed  to  meet  
 certain standards, as designated appropriate by the Legislature or a governing 
 body. 
 
Rule 5.2.3 American Association of Poison Control Centers (AAPCC) The 
national  organization for poison control centers and for certification of Specialist in 
 Poison Information. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.4 Bureau means the Bureau of Health Facilities Licensure and Certification within 
 the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.5       Agency means Mississippi State Department of Health.  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.6 Certified Specialist in Poison Control.   Specialist in Poison Control who has 
 passed the AAPCC Certified Poison Control exam. 
 
<<<PAGE 257>>>
257  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.7 Clinical Toxicologist.  Diplomats of the American Board of Applied 
 Toxicology (DABAT) or individual with appropriate training as referenced in 
 Rule 5.10.6 that has been approved by the Medical Director to function in this 
 role. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.8 Electronic Linkage.  Real-time technology that enables medical record 
 system accessibility by another poison center when needed to provide 
 coverage for a call region. Also applies to real-time technology to enable 
 medical record accessibility for personnel or consultants utilizing remote 
 access. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.9 Health Care Provider Education.   Professional education to healthcare 
 providers in a poison center service area for the purpose of improving the 
 quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of medical treatment provided to poisoned 
 patients and enhancing awareness of poison control center services. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.10 Functional Linkage.  A cooperative working relationship with another poison 
 center to ensure services are provided in a seamless manner to the designated 
 population. Coordinated patient care guidelines, databases, and other reference 
 material must be available to enable remote agents to provide a single standard 
 of information and care across the designated region. 
 
Rule 5.2.11 Medical Director. The Medical Director is a doctor of medicine or osteopathy 
 currently licensed in the appropriate state(s). The Medical Director is board 
 certified in medical toxicology through the American Board of Medical 
 Specialties.  A physician who is not board certified as listed above may submit 
 evidence of equivalent expertise demonstrated by training and certification: 
 
 1.   Board-eligible ph ysicians trained in a fellowship in medical toxicology 
  approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education 
  (AGCME) must become board certified within two consecutive  
  examination cycles. 
 
 2.    Doctors of osteopathy who have completed an Accreditation Council 
  Graduate Medical Education approved fellowship and who have passed 
  the American Osteopathic Board of Emergency Medicine examination 
  for Certification of Added Qualification in Medical Toxicology will be 
  considered qualified. 
 
<<<PAGE 258>>>
258  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.12 Medical Toxicologist   Physicians who are board certified in medical 
 toxicology through the American Board of Medical Specialties or physicians 
 who have completed an accredited fellowship in medical toxicology and in the 
 process of taking the certification examination. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.13 National Poison Data System (NPDS). Refers to a national database utilized by 
 poison control centers for entry of all human exposure data. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.14 Partnership. Any organized group where poison center education staff is in 
 regular attendance or plays a significant role. Examples include committees, 
 subcommittees, taskforces, workgroups, coalitions, and councils. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.15 Poison Information Provider (PIP). An individual who answers calls for a 
 poison control center and does not meet the eligibility criteria for the CSPI 
 examination or has failed the CSPI examination two or more consecutive times. 
 Individuals in professional training programs on educational rotations in a 
 poison control center are not considered PIPs. The title and availability of the 
 “PIP” position may differ at poison control center host institutions. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.16 Public Education. Public information shall be provided that raises awareness 
 of poisoning, poison prevention, and poison control center services based on 
 regional and community needs. Educational programs, materials, and messages 
 are under the direction of the poison control center staff or through collaborative 
 partnerships such as public health organizations, poison prevention education 
 centers, state and local agencies, schools, and other community organizations. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.17 Quality Management. A quality management and improvement program is an 
 ongoing systematic, coordinated, and continuous approach to assessing and 
 improving the delivery, quality, efficiency, and outcome of poison control center 
 services. This is accomplished through ongoing quality improvement and quality 
 assurance activities.The quality management program must include tools for 
 chart review (ensuring accurate information and documentation), measuring 
 customer and employee satisfaction, monitoring work flow and output, and 
 improving the overall quality of services. Thisincludes ongoing collection, 
 monitoring, and analysis of data and the conduct of quality improvement 
<<<PAGE 259>>>
259  
 initiatives while taking action where indicated for the purpose of reducing errors 
 and improve performance. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.18 Specialist in Poison Control.  A specialist in poison information (SPI) is a 
 licensed registered nurse, pharmacist, physician, or physician assistant (PA), 
 current or previously certified specialist in poison information as defined by 
 AAPCC Certified Specialist in Poison Control Exam Criteria for Specialists in 
 Poison Information or an individual who has completed job training as 
 directed by the medical director. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.2.19     Teleworking.  Refers to any arrangement in which a poison control center 
 employee is working at  an off-site environment on a regular, recurring, or 
 occasional basis or as an element of a disaster plan. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 3   ACCREDITATION 
 
Rule 5.3.1 Accreditation. An entity shall not operate a poison control center within the 
 State of Mississippi without first obtaining accreditation from the Mississippi 
 State Department of Health. Substantial compliance with all requirements, as 
 outlined in this Chapter, must be achieved in order for a Poison Control 
 Center to become accredited. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15   
Rule 5.3.2 Application for Accreditation. Upon request for accreditation, the entity shall 
 submit an application and required documentation, on Forms and in a manner as 
 prescribed by Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.3 Fees. Accreditation and re-accreditation renewal fees shall be established by the 
 Mississippi Board of Health.  The applicant shall bear the expense of all 
 compliance reviews and inspection, to include but not be limited to, the cost of 
 contracted services, transportation, lodging, and related per- diem expenses for 
 specialist, as necessary, to conduct the initial certification compliance review and 
 annual recertification reviews, plus the cost of administrative review, and 
 monitoring. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
<<<PAGE 260>>>
260  
Rule 5.3.4 Name of Institution. The institutional name will be specific to the institution 
 but shall contain the words “poison control center”. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.5 Foundation for Services. The Mississippi Poison Control Center shall operate 
 under the auspices of a tertiary care center that is associated with a medical and 
 pharmacy school. The Medical Director of the poison control center shall 
 assume overall responsibility to assure compliance with the regulations, for 
 setting policy, appointing medical and other persons to carry out such policies 
 and for monitoring the poison control center’s total operation. Collaboration of 
 services with a medical center/school is important due to expertise and 
 resources of that entity in the management of poisonings and its function as an 
 educational institution for medical and other health related professions. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.6 Operational Requirements. In order for a poison control center to be 
 considered operational, the center must: 
 
 1. Have telecommunications and data resources to assure accessibility  
  24/7/365; 
 
 2. Utilize the national PCC hotline number of 1-800-222- 1222; 
 
 3. Have availability of medical and assistive staff to meet the needs of the 
  call volume, educational and training productions and related services; 
 
 4. Routinely upload exposure data into the National Poison Control Database. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15   
Rule 5.3.7 Accreditation Renewal Cycle. The accreditation issued for the operation of a 
 poison control program, unless sooner suspended or revoked, shall expire 
 automatically on June 30 of each third calendar year. Should initial 
 accreditation  occur prior to  the June 30 date, the initial accreditation period 
 shall run from the date of determination of compliance with all rules and 
 regulations through June 30 of the following year post June 30. For example, 
 if compliance is determined and initial accreditation is granted on February 28, 
 2015, the initial licensure period shall run from February 28, 2015 thru June 
 30, 2018.  June 30, 2016, then shall be established on an every three calendar 
 year cycle. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.8 Accreditation Renewal Process. The poison control center seeking 
 renewal of its accreditation shall: 
 
<<<PAGE 261>>>
261  
 1. Request a renewal packet from the Bureau if one is not received within 
  45 days prior to the expiration of the accreditation date; 
 
 2. Complete all forms and return to the Bureau within 30 days prior to the 
  expiration of the renewal; 
 
 3. Submit the required accreditation renewal fees with the packet. A  
  renewal packet is not considered complete until the completed packet and 
  all pertinent fees are submitted. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.9 Notification of Changes. Mississippi State Department of Health shall be 
 notified, in writing, of any of the following within 5 business days following 
 the occurrence: 
 
 1.    Address/Location 
 
 2.    Phone Number (or change in national hotline number) 
 
 3.   Hours of Operation/24 hour Contact Procedure 
 
 4.    Medical Director 
 
 5.    Poison Control Manager 
 
 6.    Cessation of Business 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15   
Rule 5.3.10 Posting of Accreditation Status. The accreditation notice shall be 
 displayed in a prominent place within the office of the poison control 
 command center. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.11 Inspections. Observation and inspection of the poison control center, to include 
 but not be limited to, review of staffing, procedures, processes, cases, logs, 
 reports, quality assurance/improvement reviews shall be available at all 
 reasonable hours to properly identified representatives of the Department. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.12 Denial, Suspension or Revocation of Accreditation. Under the Agency’s 
 authority to promote and protect public health, the accrediting Agency will hold 
 authority to deny, suspend or revocate the accreditation of an accredited poison 
<<<PAGE 262>>>
262  
 control center. Any of the following actions may be grounds for action by the 
 Agency: 
 
 1. Noncompliance with provisions of the accreditation regulations as written 
in this    chapter; 
 
 2.    Failure to assure qualified medical oversight and adequately qualified  
  trained staff; 
 
 3.    Failure to maintain telecommunications on a 24 hour basis;   
 4.    Addiction to narcotics by any member of the medical or management 
  staff of the center; 
 
 5.    Conviction of a felony by any member of the medical or management 
  staff of the center; 
 
 6.    Publicly misrepresenting the poison control center or its services; 
 
 7.    Permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of an unlawful act; 
 
 8.    Misappropriating monies or properties of the center;  
 9.    Failure to promptly notify the appropriate authorities upon receipt of 
  a call or information indicative of imminent danger to the calling  
  party, their family or others. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.3.13 Termination of Operation. Thirty days prior to discontinuation or 
 determination of operation, management within the poison control center shall 
 notify, in writing, the Governor and Lieutenant Governor of the State of 
 Mississippi, Legislative Speakers of the House, both Senate and House of 
 Representatives, the State Health Officer, and all other individuals, as deemed 
 appropriate. The poison control center shall take steps, as necessary, to assure 
 notification of the citizens of the State of Mississippi. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 4   CALL CENTER COMMUNICATIONS AND INFRASTRUCTURE 
 
Rule 5.4.1 Communications and Infrastructure. The poison control center maintains the 
 infrastructure and resources necessary to respond to calls from its designated 
 service region 24 hours per day, 365 days a year. The center demonstrates its 
 commitment to high standards of patient care and safety by providing sufficient 
 human, physical, and financial resources to support its mission. All activities of 
<<<PAGE 263>>>
263  
 the poison control center are conducted at all times with sound ethical 
 principles and in compliance with applicable federal and state laws. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15   
Rule 5.4.2 Access. The poison control call center shall maintain a communications 
 infrastructure to ensure timely and uninterrupted access to call center staff 24 
 hours a day, 7 days a week, and 365 days a year. 
 
1. The poison control center shall maintain a communications infrastructure 
that  
        ensures timely and unrestricted access to its trained staff without 
interruption. 
2.    The poison control center shall ensure a communications infrastructure 
sufficient to respond to demands for services within its designated region, 
the State of Mississippi. 
 
3.    The poison center shall monitor to ensure that all counties within its 
designated region, the State of Mississippi are served. 
 
4.    The poison control center shall use and promote the nationwide toll-free 
number, 1-800-222-1222. 
 
5.    The poison control center shall not impose a direct fee to individual 
members of the lay public (either by direct billing or pay-forcall services) 
for poison exposure emergency calls received from the public within its 
region.  
6.    The poison control center shall respond to inquiries in languages other than 
English as appropriate to the region, using language translation services, 
interpreters, and/or bilingual staff. 
 
7.    The poison control center shall provide access for hearing- impaired 
individuals. 
 
8.    The poison control center shall document and upload to the National 
Poison Data System (NPDS) all human exposure and information cases 
received by any communication method (e.g., email, text, chat). 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.3 Service Coverage. The poison control center shall have systems in place to 
 monitor and assure that poison control education and services are available and 
 provided to all parts of the State of Mississippi. The center shall use NPDS data 
 to monitor county utilization annually and will utilize quality improvement 
 measures to improve utilization in underserved areas. 
 
<<<PAGE 264>>>
264  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.4 Policies and Procedures. The poison control center must establish and 
 comply with policies and procedures that ensure poisoning exposures and/or 
 situations threatening human health are responded to and handled 
 appropriately. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.5 Additional Information Services.  The poison control center may provide 
 additional information services for public health, private industry, or other 
 entities but must ensure adequate staffing is provided for poison-related calls. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.6       Reference Materials. The poison control center shall establish patient care 
 guidelines, databases, and other reference materials that ensure a si ngle standard of  
 information and care across the state.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.7 Triage of Calls. The poison control center provides effective triage of emergent 
 calls. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
 
Rule 5.4.8 Diversion of Calls.  If the poison control center routinely diverts calls, it must 
have the technology in place to allow real -time computer-networked access 
through a shared or replicated database to patient records with the capability to 
retrieve records for patient care and to have charting entries mad e in real time, 
following the standard practices for the poison center.  This excludes brief 
periods such as coverage for staff meetings, telephony updates and disaster 
situations. 
 
 The poison control center may divert calls only to an accredited poison control 
center.  Both centers must ensure that continuity of clinical care is achieved 
when diverting calls  or sharing call responsibilities. Medical direction shall be 
maintained at all times during the process. A system must be put into place to 
replicate records into the home poison control database in a timely manner. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.4.9 Internal Emergency Operations Plan. The poison control center shall have a 
written internal emergency operations plan designed to coordinate its 
communications, resources, staff responsibilities, and clinical and support 
<<<PAGE 265>>>
265  
activities during an internal emergency, to ensure that services can be provided 
continuously to its designated service region. 
 
1.    The poison control center shall develop response and contingency plans 
for natural and technological disasters that may affect its facility, 
operations, and/or staff. 
 
2.    The poison control center shall develop a policy for business continuity 
in the event of a communications failure. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15   
Rule 5.4.10 External Emergency Operations Plan. The poison control center must have a 
 written external emergency operations plan for assisting local, state, and federal 
 authorities respond to emergencies occurring within its designated service 
 region. 
 
1.    The poison control center shall assists in local, regional, and/or 
national emergency preparedness planning activities. 
 
2.    The poison control center shall develop and maintain a plan for 
capacity to respond to mass poisoning exposures or public health events. 
The written plan must cover surge capacity to respond to mass poisoning 
exposure or public health events. 
 
3.    The poison control center shall develop response and contingency plans 
for natural and technological disasters that may affect its facility, 
operations, and/or staff. 
 
4.    The poison control center shall develop a policy for business 
continuity in the event of a communications failure. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 5   Call Center Staffing   
Rule 5.5.1 Qualified Staff.  The poison control center’s telephone consultation personnel 
 possess the appropriate combination of educational credential(s), specialized 
 training and/or certification, work experience, and demonstrated skills to qualify 
 them for the tasks they are performing. 
 
1.    Telephone consultation staff members must be qualified, 
experienced, trained, and competent to deliver quality patient care.   
2.    Telephone consultation staff shall receive ongoing continuing 
education related to toxicology. 
<<<PAGE 266>>>
266  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.5.2 Staffing for PCC. The poison control center must ensure that telephone 
 consultation staff members are adequately qualified. The center shall be staffed 
 with medical toxicologist, clinical toxicologist, certified poison information 
 specialist (CSPI), specialist in poison information (SPI), poison information 
 providers (PIP), and other personnel, as needed, based on the volume of calls. 
 
 
1.    A Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) or a Certified Specialist in 
Poison Information (CSPI) may work part time or full time in the poison 
control center, but when scheduled to work on the poison center hotline, 
100% of his or her time must be dedicated to poison control center 
activities. 
 
2.    A Certified Specialist in Poison Information (CSPI) may work as a sole 
individual providing service in handling human exposure calls if the 
medical director and the Poison Control Manager (if a clinical 
toxicologist) have evaluated the CSPI’s performance and have deemed the 
CSPI appropriate to work alone with access to clinical supervision at all 
times. 
 
3.    A non-certified Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) may work as a sole 
individual providing service in handling human exposure calls if the SPI 
is in the process of meeting the Certified Specialist in Poison Information 
(CSPI) examination eligibility requirements, has handled a minimum of 
2,000 human exposure cases, and the medical director and poison control 
manager have evaluated the SPIs performance and have deemed the SPI 
appropriate to work alone with access to clinical supervision at all times.   
4.    Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) who are not Clinical Toxicologists 
(see Rule 5.2.7) or Medical Toxicologists (see Rule 5.2.12) shall be 
certified by the American Association of Poison Control Centers within 
three consecutive certification examinations. Initial eligibility for 
certification is met when the candidate meets criteria for call volume and 
hours worked and poison control center leadership has verified the 
candidate’s eligibility. 
 
5.    A Certified Specialist in Poison Information (CSPI) who fails the re-
certification exam or does not retake it before the expiration date of the 
certification reverts to a Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) but 
remains eligible to retake the examination. This SPI must recertify 
within three consecutive administrations of the certification exam.   
<<<PAGE 267>>>
267  
6.    A Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) or Certified Specialist in Poison 
Information (CSPI) who has failed the examination three times may not 
work independently and must follow the scheduling and supervision 
requirements of a Poison Information Provider (PIP) (refer to items 8-10, 
as listed below) but remains eligible to retake the certification 
examination.  Any change in employment status must follow host 
institution policy. 
 
7.    A Poison Information Provider may work part time or full time in the 
poison control center, but when scheduled to work on the poison center 
hotline, 100% of his or her time must be dedicated to poison control 
center activities. 
 
8.    Poison Information Providers may not be the sole individual scheduled 
to work on the poison center hotline.   
9.    At all times, Poison Information Providers must be under the 
oversight/direction of a certified Specialist in Poison Control, a 
qualified person providing medical direction, or a Clinical 
Toxicologist and/or Medical Toxicologist.  
 
10.   Qualified individuals – (an individual as defined in Rule 5.5.2(2)   The  
        center must provide 1:2 (supervisor to PIP) oversight of PIPs who 
        manage exposure calls.   
11.  Supervising individuals, as listed in Rule 5.5.2 (2) shall provide the 
following types of oversight to a Poison Information Provider:  direct 
oversight, on-site oversight, or general oversight. Direct oversight means 
the individual is within technologically unassisted audible and visible 
reach of the Poison Information Provider.  On-site oversight means the 
individual must be in the Poison Control Center and quickly available to 
the Poison Information Provider.  General oversight means accepting 
responsibility for and overseeing the services of a Poison Information 
Provider by telephone, by videoconferencing, or in person as frequently 
as necessary considering the location, nature of practice, and experience 
of the Poison Information Provider. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.5.3       Staff Experience/Expertise. The poison control center must ensure that 
 telephone consultation staff have the appropriate experience and level 
 of expertise to achieve and maintain a high standard of practice. 
 
1.    To maintain experience, expertise, and quality, call center personnel at a 
poison control center must handle, on average, at least 2,000 and not 
more than 5,500 human exposures per Certified Specialist in Poison 
<<<PAGE 268>>>
268  
Control/Specialist in Poison Control/ Poison Information Provider full-
time equivalent (FTE) per year.   
2.    The Mississippi Poison Control Center will strive to maintain 100% of 
Specialist in Poison Control’s FTEs by certified specialist in poison 
control; however, in times of high turnover, the Mississippi Poison 
Control Center will make every effort to assure that at least 50% of the 
specialists functioning in the poison control center will be certified 
specialist in poison control.   Should the number of certified specialist in 
poison control information drop below the 50% , the Mississippi Poison 
Control Unit will notify the accrediting agency and provide to the 
accrediting agency a detailed action plan for assuring adequate coverage 
of the center with qualified staff during this period and which shall 
address recruitment and training efforts. The minimum number of 
Certified Specialist in Poison Information (CSPI) for certification shall be 
no less than 40%. 
 
3.    Specialists in Poison Control (SPI) not currently certified by AAPCC 
must spend a minimum of 800 hours per year (15 hours/week average) 
and manage 1,000 human exposure cases per year working as a SPI.   
4.    Certified Specialists in Poison Information (CSPIs) must spend a 
minimum of 400 hours per year (8 hours/week average) and manage 500 
human exposure cases per year or equivalent of an equal number of 
hours in providing professional education, clinical, or case management 
activities. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.5.4 Training and Orientation. The poison control center must demonstrate that 
 telephone consultation staff are trained appropriately and assessed on an 
 ongoing basis to maintain competency.   
1.  The Medical Director is responsible for content oversight of 
staff toxicology education and training. 
  
2.  The poison control center must have an orientation/training program for 
new staff providing toxicologic information, including training manuals, 
written learning objectives, regular evaluation of progress, and 
competency evaluation.   
3.  The poison control center must have an ongoing education program in 
place to update and increase the knowledge base and competency of 
staff. 
 
4.  A regular evaluation process must be in place for telephone consultation 
<<<PAGE 269>>>
269  
 staff, involving review of both communication skills and case 
management. 
 
a. All telephone personnel must complete the Poison Control Center 
  Collaborative Communications Training Module on an annual 
 basis.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.5.5       Resources. The poison control center must ensure that medical toxicologists, 
 clinical toxicologists, and telephone consultation staff have access to resources 
 needed to ensure learning and the delivery of competent care.   
1.    Comprehensive product information resources shall be 
immediately available to the clinical staff at all times. 
 
2.    Clinical staff members shall be timely informed of current 
toxicology matters and trends (e.g., current drug trends, recalls).   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15  
Rule 5.5.6 Teleworking. If the poison control center’s leadership determines that 
 teleworking is an appropriate alternative work arrangement to meet the needs of 
 the populations it serves, the center must ensure that its services provided by 
 teleworkers meet all requisite standards. 
 
1.    Employee eligibility for teleworking is determined at the sole discretion 
of the poison control center clinical/medical director leadership. 
 
2.   At least one Specialist in Poison Information (SPI) must be onsite for 
each shift during business and peak call volume hours, unless there is a 
disaster that requires closure of the facility.   
3.    The poison control center has a teleworking agreement or policy to 
establish eligibility guidelines, usage policies, work hours, employee 
availability, IT support processes, and data security, demonstrating a 
clear understanding of the expectations of teleworkers. 
 
4.    The poison control center has a well-defined emergency service 
continuity plan, including a policy for business continuity in the event of 
a telecommunication failure at the remote site (refer to Emergency 
Operations Plan).   
5.    Teleworkers must have immediate access to a clinical or medical 
toxicologist at all times commensurate with on-site staff designated 
to answer poison control center calls. 
<<<PAGE 270>>>
270  
 
6.    Teleworkers must have access to key information resources at all 
times commensurate with onsite staff designated to answer poison 
control center calls. 
 
7.    The poison control center ensures proper review of patient management 
by teleworkers.  This includes immediate access to teleworker case and 
voice recordings for review by medical director and/or clinical 
supervisor.   
8.    The poison control center has a plan to provide and document 
staff development activities for teleworkers. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.5.6  (9) The poison control center may utilize teleworking to support call delivery.  In 
  addition, the poison control center may enter into an agreement with another  
  poison control center to provide call management services via teleworking during  
  low volume times in which it is not financially feasible to maintain a full-time SPI 
  at the home poison control center.  
 
a. The poison control center supplying the teleworking services 
must be accredited. 
 
b. Teleworking calls will be answered as “Thank you for calling the 
Mississippi Poison Control Center”. 
 
c. The home poison control center will supply medical direction and 
medical toxicologists from the home poison control center and 
will communicate with   physicians requiring assistance during 
these hours. 
 
d. All teleworking SPIs must meet the minimum eligibility 
requirements of the home poison center. 
 
e. This will be a Functional linkage as defined under 5.2.10.  
Coordinated patient care guidelines, databases, and other 
reference material must be available to enable remote agents to 
provide a single standard of information and care across the 
Mississippi.  This process is not call diversion. 
 
f. All call records will be routinely uploaded to the NPDS at a 
frequency equal to   or shorter than that used by the home poison 
control center. These call records must be identified as 
Mississippi calls and the home center must be listed as the 
primary center.  The teleworking poison control center will 
<<<PAGE 271>>>
271  
provide full electronic copies of all cases to the home poison 
control center.  A written procedure will be followed for full 
electronic call records of teleworking calls to be replicated in the 
home poison control center database within 10 hours of the call. 
 
g. The home poison control center will have immediate access to a 
shared/replicated database maintained by the teleworking poison 
control center. 
 
h. A written plan will be maintained and followed for the home 
poison control center to resume call management in the case of a 
disaster at the teleworking poison control center. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 6 
 
Rule 5.6.1 Patient Management.  Poison control centers shall provide information to the 
 public and to health care providers regarding human exposures, including 
 assessment of the type and severity of poisoning, suggestions for on-site 
 management when appropriate, reassurance to the caller, and referral to a health 
 care facility when necessary. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.2 Systems for Care. The poison control center shall have systems in place to 
 provide safe and appropriate exposure management recommendations and to 
 help the public and care providers avoid unnecessary utilization of health care 
 resources.  When referral to a health care facility is necessary, the facility will 
 be notified of information regarding the case and the relevant toxicology of the 
 poison involved.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.3 Informational Source. The poison control center will provide health care 
 providers with information on treatment, differential diagnosis, and 
 interpretation of clinical signs and laboratory values and facilitate access to 
 specialized toxicology services and follow- up. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.4 Availability of Medical Consultation. Clinical or medical toxicologists shall 
 be available at all times for consultation.  The poison control center medical 
 director or designee shall be available for medical back-up at all times. 
 Consultations to healthcare facilities shall be conducted by the Medical 
 Toxicologist or his/her designee. 
<<<PAGE 272>>>
272  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.5 Patient Management Guidelines. The poison control center must utilize 
 patient management guidelines for the assessment, triage, management, and 
 follow-up of poisoning exposures.  Those guidelines must clearly define 
 parameters for patients managed on- site and health care facility (HCF) 
 management and appropriate follow-up. 
 
1.    The poison control center provides clinical guidelines that include but 
are not limited to the evaluation and follow-up of  potentially toxic 
exposures and appropriate criteria for patient disposition. 
 
 
2.    The poison control center regularly uses a process for the establishment 
of guidelines, including time lines for review and update.   
3.    The poison control center ensures that guidelines are available to all staff 
at all times. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.6 Follow-up of Cases. The poison control center shall provide timely and 
 appropriate follow-up (internally defined).  Follow-up calls from the poison 
 control center are used to ascertain patient status, symptom resolution, 
 compliance with or modification of recommended therapy, and, when 
 appropriate, status after discharge. 
 
  1.    At least 75% of human exposure cases managed at a Health Care  
   Facility (HCF) (already in or en route to HCF) are followed to a  
   known outcome (excluding not followed, judged as nontoxic; lost to 
   follow-up/left AMA, refused referral/did not arrive at HCF).   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.7 External Resources. The poison control center must identify and have access to 
 pertinent external resources at all times to assist with unique poisonings 
 encountered in the region.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.6.8 Antidotes.  The poison control center must maintain a process to locate critical 
 antidotes and assist with the transfer of the patient or the antidote when 
 necessary. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
<<<PAGE 273>>>
273  
 
Subchapter 7 Quality Assurance 
 
Rule 5.7.1 Quality Assurance Program. The poison control center shall develop and 
 utilize an on-going quality management and improvement program. This quality 
 management and improvement program and activities shall be the framework 
 within which the poison control center improves the quality of information and 
 service delivery to callers. 
1.    The quality management program must include tools for chart review 
 (ensuring accurate information and documentation), measuring customer 
 and employee satisfaction, monitoring work flow and output, and 
improving the overall quality of services. 
 
2.    The poison control center shall demonstrate the use of a comprehensive, 
written, quality management program that describes the center’s methods 
of conducting quality improvement and quality assurance.   
3.   The poison control center shall apply the results of quality management 
to update its policies and procedures, reduce errors, and improve 
performance. 
 
 
4.    The quality assurance and quality improvement program shall be 
managed by the medical or clinical toxicologist or designee and overseen 
by the Medical Director.  These activities are conducted in accordance 
with the policies and procedures of the poison control center, reviewed by 
the Medical Director and action taken as appropriate. Documentation of 
the quality assurance processes, findings, outcome and all corrective 
actions taken shall be documented and maintained as evidence of the 
poison control center’s quality assurance/improvement process. 
 
5.   The poison control center shall conduct at least one unique quality 
management initiative every 12 months, at a minimum, exclusive of 
regular audits. 
 
6.  The poison control center shall incorporate an internal or external 
benchmarking into its quality management program. Proposed Outcomes 
include: 
a. Improve quality of patient care and information services; 
b. Organizational efficiency and performance; 
c. Therapeutic and coding error reduction; 
d. Optimization of caller satisfaction; 
e. Optimization of employee satisfaction; and 
f. Fulfillment of the center’s mission.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
<<<PAGE 274>>>
274  
 
Rule 5.7.2 Case Review. The poison control center shall regularly review its medical 
 records for, at a minimum, the quality of poison information provided and the 
 quality of documentation, including accuracy and completeness.   
1.    The Medical Director shall be responsible for the accuracy of toxicologic 
recommendations made by clinical staff, including specialists in poison 
information, poison information providers, students, residents, and 
fellows. A program for the review of medical records shall be in place for 
improved management and documentation of cases. 
 
2.    A selection of high-risk or problem-prone cases and those managed in a 
health care facility shall be reviewed internally on an ongoing basis 
under the direction of a medical or clinical toxicologist. 
 
3.    A selection of cases managed on-site (non-health care facility) shall be 
reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by a medical or clinical 
toxicologist or individual designated by the medical or clinical 
toxicologist.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.7.3 Policy/Procedural Reviews. The poison control center shall, on a regular basis, 
 examine all of its guidelines, policies, and procedures to ensure that they drive 
 optimal performance. 
 
1.    The poison control center shall regularly examine the compliance of 
its employees in adhering to its clinical guidelines, policies, and 
procedures.   
2.    The Medical Director shall review and approve all clinical guidelines at 
least every 24 months and ensure that the number and content of the 
center’s policies are adequate to direct the provision of state-of-the-art 
toxicologic advice.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.7.4 Customer Satisfaction. The poison control center shall measure the 
 satisfaction of its customers (general public and health care providers) on an 
 ongoing basis (minimum of once per year).   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
<<<PAGE 275>>>
275  
Rule 5.7.5       Medical/Case Records. The poison control center shall keep records of all 
 cases for which it was consulted or provided information in a format that is 
 acceptable as a medical record. 
 
1.    The medical/case record shall be used to facilitate communication 
among poison control center staff members to ensure a clear, consistent, 
and cohesive set of recommendations regarding diagnosis, treatment, 
and other clinical advice.   
2.    The medical record of the poison control center shall contain data 
elements and sufficient narrative to allow peer review and medical audit. 
 
3.    The poison control center shall follow applicable institutional, state, 
and federal laws and regulations regarding patient confidentiality.  Its 
medical record system shall be indexed for easy retrieval, either 
hardcopy or electronic and maintained in a secure location. 
 
4.   The poison control center shall develop, in writing, and abide by a 
record retention policy. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 8   Public Education 
 
Rule 5.8.1 Public Education Program. The control center will provide or participate in 
 poisoning prevention, awareness, and education throughout its designated 
 region, the state of Mississippi. Public education will incorporate a combination 
 of public health strategies, including but not limited to direct outreach, 
 marketing, public relations, collaborative relationships with community groups 
 and other agencies, and mass media, to increase awareness of poisoning, poison 
 prevention, and poison center services, tailored to regional community needs 
 and the population served. Effective public education is based on a solid 
 understanding of the impact of poisonings, the groups at risk, and the use of 
 appropriate educational strategies. Public education efforts provided through 
 collaborative partnerships shall be vetted by the poison control center to meet 
 the identified needs of the designated populations. 
 
1. The poison control center shall utilize internal or external individual(s) or 
organization(s) that are qualified/ trained to plan, design, and implement 
coordinated public education activities throughout the designated region. 
 
2. The poison control center will provide poison prevention and awareness 
education. Collaboration and partnerships may enhance the ability to 
provide effective public education and awareness programs.  
 
3. The educator(s) with oversight of content and quality of public education 
activities at the poison control center must be a health professional or have 
<<<PAGE 276>>>
276  
a degree in health education, public health, or an education-related 
discipline or relevant work-related experience.  
 
4. The educator(s) must demonstrate ongoing efforts in continuing education 
related to his or her current job function and accreditation standards.  
 
5. The poison control center will periodically assess community needs for 
public education.  Target populations throughout Mississippi will be 
identified.  
 
6. The poison center shall ensure planning and implementation of a 
comprehensive public education program to reach the target populations.  
The poison center adapts or develops public education strategies that are 
appropriate for the intended target populations. 
 
7. The public education programs conducted by the poison control center 
shall include ongoing evaluations and apply the results to improve and 
advance public education programs.  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.8.2  Healthcare Provider Education Program.  The poison control center provides 
  education to health care providers (HCPs) in their designated region for the  
  purpose of improving awareness of poison center services and the quality,  
  effectiveness, and efficiency of medical treatment for the poisoned patient.  
 
1. The poison control center must employ or utilize individual(s) that are 
qualified/trained to plan, design, and implement coordinated health care 
provider education activities at the poison control center and throughout the 
designated region.  Content oversight will be provided by the Medical 
Director or a clinical or medical toxicologist as his designee. 
 
2. New and important advances in poisoning management will be provided to 
health care providers throughout the designated service region. 
 
3. The accredited poison control center may offer educational activities for 
students in health care disciplines and residents in training.  
 
4. The curricula and program formats shall be developed around learning 
objectives consistent with the interests and level of expertise of the targeted 
professional audience.  The poison center will apply evaluation results to 
improve the provider education program. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
<<<PAGE 277>>>
277  
Rule 5.8.3 Educational Information. The poison control center shall provide public 
 education information and materials (developed internally or externally) that are 
 clinically accurate and designed for the specific target population.   
1.    All information and materials shall be easy to read, simple to understand 
by the targeted population, and developed applying health literacy 
principles. 
 
2.   Public education program materials developed by the poison control 
center or by an American Association for Poison Prevention Center must 
be reviewed for clinical accuracy by the Clinical and/ or Medical 
Toxicologist of the poison control center. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.8.3 Collaborative Relationships. The poison control center shall develop 
 collaborative relationships with entities such as public health organizations, 
 other poison prevention centers, state and local agencies, private-sector  
 businesses, schools, and community organizations in support of poison 
 prevention efforts and poison center services. 
 
 1.    The poison control center shall maintain documentation of said activities. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 9 Data and Surveillance 
  
Rule 5.9.1 Data and Surveillance.  The poison control center shall collaborate with local, 
 state, and federal public health entities for the surveillance of poisonings.   
1.    Surveillance data shall be used for: 
 
 a.    The detection and monitoring of, and response to, public health 
 and environmental emergencies involving toxic exposures, 
 pandemics, as well as the contamination of the air, water, 
 pharmaceutical or food supply; 
 
 b.    Implementing and evaluating prevention and control measures;   
 c.    Planning and managing resources and establishing 
 priorities; and  
 
 d.    Identifying emerging trends and/or public health threats. 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
<<<PAGE 278>>>
278  
 
Rule 5.9.2 Record/Case Retention. The poison control center shall generate and keep a 
 permanent confidential record of each exposure case handled by the center in a 
 form generally accepted as a medical record for a period of time consistent with 
 institutional, state, and federal regulations on the retention of general medical 
 records. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.3 Record Documentation. The poison control center shall facilitate 
 communication among staff to ensure clear, consistent, and cohesive 
 documentation using the medical record.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.4 Retrieval of Records. The poison control center’s medical records (paper or 
 electronic) shall be stored appropriately and easily retrievable. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.5 System for Disaster Recovery. The poison control center maintains a disaster 
 recovery system for patient records. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.6 Submissions to National Poison Data System (NPDS). The poison control 
 center shall submit all of its human exposure data to the NPDS in the format and 
 time-frame, as prescribed by the NPDS. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.7 NPDS Entries. The poison control center shall have an ongoing process to 
 ensure that consistent, complete, and accurate data are entered and submitted to 
 the National Poison Data System. 
 
  1.    The poison control center shall have a process in place to minimize 
   data coding errors.  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.9.8  Public Health Monitoring. The poison control center will monitor for the  
  emergence of poisoning hazards and take specific actions to eliminate them.  
  Those actions include, but are not limited to, notification of the appropriate public 
  health officials regarding hazards, public and professional education efforts, press  
  releases, and poison prevention efforts.  
 
<<<PAGE 279>>>
279  
1. The poison control center has a process for sharing information to meet 
the needs of local, state, and federal public health entities.  
 
2. The poison control center has a process of communicating hazards to 
local, state, and federal authorities and other agencies in real time and 
maintains communication with those entities as needed.  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15  
 
Subchapter 10 Leadership and Management 
 
Rule 5.10.1 Leadership and Management. The poison control center shall employ 
 individuals who collectively provide expertise in clinical toxicology.  The 
 poison control center shall also employ or utilize leaders and managers to 
 perform the functions necessary to support the expert staff, including experts in 
 human resource management, budgetary and financial management, education, 
 regulatory compliance, emergency preparedness and response, facilities 
 management, and information technology. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15  
Rule 5.10.2 Qualified Leadership. The poison control center shall be staffed by leadership 
 personnel who are qualified to perform their designated duties. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.3 Functions of Leadership. The poison center’s leaders shall have the following 
 duties and responsibilities:   
1.    Ensure that information provided to the public and health care 
professionals is of the highest possible quality; 
 
2.   Optimize the poison control center’s stability through astute 
financial management;   
3.    Hire, train, mentor, and manage a team of experts in toxicology, using 
policies and procedures designed to facilitate optimal output (timely flow 
of quality information); 
 
4.    Oversee the quality of information collected and recorded for 
descriptive epidemiology purposes; 
 
5.    Ensure that the center has planned for continued provision of poison 
control center services during emergencies;   
<<<PAGE 280>>>
280  
6.    Establish and maintain partnerships with public health and 
other stakeholders; and 
 
7.    Ensure that meaningful surveillance links exist to transmit poison 
control center hazard observations to appropriate public health 
officials. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.4 Medical Leadership. The individual or individuals providing medical direction 
 shall individually or collectively devote a minimum of 20 hours per week to the 
 center to conduct the required Medical Director duties.  Additional medical 
 direction may be desirable and may be necessary. 
 
1.   One or more individuals may function as administrative director(s) and 
shall be accountable for all operations of the poison control center.   
2.   These  individuals are accountable for all operations of the poison 
control center shall ensure that all other staff members meet 
qualifications for their designated duties. 
 
3.    An individual may be qualified to perform more than one 
leadership function.  
4.    Poisoning information and treatment advice shall be provided by staff 
under the direction of adequately qualified clinical toxicologists, at least 
one of which must be a qualified medical toxicologist designated to serve 
as the Medical Director.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.5 Credentials and Qualifications.  The poison control center shall employ or use 
 toxicologists who are appropriately qualified and approved by the Medical 
 Director to perform clinical supervision. Qualified toxicologists may be either 
 Clinical Toxicologists or Medical Toxicologists.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.6 Credentials of Clinical Toxicologist. The poison control center may employ or 
 use Clinical Toxicologists, defined as follows: 
 
1.    Clinical Toxicologists may be diplomats of the American Board of 
Applied Toxicology (DABAT).   
<<<PAGE 281>>>
281  
2.    Health  care  providers  without  ABAT  certification  will  be  considered 
qualified to provide clinical supervision for the purpose of  determining 
compliance with current criteria if: 
 
 a.    The healthcare provider has met the following criteria: 
 
   i. A minimum of a baccalaureate degree in nursing,  
   pharmaceutical services, or a doctorate in medicine; 
   and 
  
  ii.   A minimum of a baccalaureate degree in toxicology  
  related field, such as toxicology, chemistry,   
  biochemistry, or environmental science; and 
 
  iii.  A certification by a national toxicology board such as the 
  American Board of  Applied T oxicology, the A merican 
  Association of Poison Control Centers, or the American 
  Board of Toxicology; and 
 
  iv.  Post graduate education/certificate in clinical toxicology.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.7 Qualifications of Medical Toxicologist. The poison control center shall 
 employ or use one or more medical toxicologists who meet the following: 
 
1.    Medical toxicologists associated with the poison control center shall be 
physicians (MD, DO) who are board-eligible or board-certified in 
medical toxicology through the American Board of Medical Specialties 
or the American Board of Osteopathic Medicine; 
 
2.    Have a current and unrestricted license from the Mississippi State Board of 
 Medical Licensure; and   
3.    Participate in consultations with the poison control center staff and 
perform consultations with other health care providers. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.8 Medical Director Qualifications. One or more medical toxicologists may share 
 the duties of the Medical Director, provided that all meet the qualifications. 
 
1.    If more than one individual performs the duties of a Medical Director, 
one individual shall serve as the designated Medical Director for the 
center. 
 
<<<PAGE 282>>>
282  
2.    The Medical Director shall be a doctor of medicine or osteopathy with a 
current and unrestricted license from the Mississippi State Board of 
Medical Licensure.   
3.    The Medical Director shall be board certified in medical toxicology 
through the American Board of Medical Specialties subspecialty 
examination in Medical Toxicology (after 1994).  A physician who is not 
board certified as listed above may submit evidence of equivalent 
expertise demonstrated by training and certification: 
 
 a.    Board-eligible physicians trained in a fellowship in medical 
 toxicology approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate 
 Medical Education (AGCME) must become board certified 
 within two consecutive examination cycles.   
 b.    Doctors of Osteopathy who have completed an ACGME-
 approved fellowship and who have passed the American 
 Osteopathic Board of Emergency Medicine examination for 
 Certification of Added Qualification in Medical Toxicology 
 will be considered qualified.  
 
4.    The Medical Director and all other individuals designated as providers 
of medical direction must have active staff appointments at an inpatient 
treatment facility and must be involved in the bedside clinical 
management of poisoned patients. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.9 Readily Available Evidence of Qualifications. The poison control center shall 
 maintain and have readily accessible for review an individual file for each 
 employee which shall contain, but not be limited to the following: 
 
1.    Signed acknowledgement of the duties and responsibilities of their job 
description, to include a copy of said job description;   
2.    A biographical sketch for each physician and/or toxicologists (clinical 
and medical); 
 
3.    Documentation of the Medical Director’s approval of all 
toxicologists operating within the poison control center; 
 
4.    Verification of current medical, nursing and/or other professional 
licensure, as applicable;   
<<<PAGE 283>>>
283  
5.    Documented evidence that the Medical Director and all other 
individuals designated as providers of medical direction have active 
medical staff privileges at an inpatient treatment facility (e.g., letters of 
appointment). 
 
6.    Verification of clinical and/or medical toxicology board certification 
(or alternative proof of qualification).   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.10   Required Expertise.  In an effort to assure quality poison control services, the 
  poison control center shall assure clinical and medical toxicology expertise for 
  all Medical and Cl inical Toxicologist working as part of or in conjun ction with 
  the center. 
 
  1.    A poison control center shall provide full-time toxicological supervision. 
   This must include at least one full-time equivalent on-site toxicologic 
   supervision provided by a qualified Clinical or Medical Toxicologist (or 
   a combination) and appropriate qualified back-up.   
  2.    The Medical Director may designate other toxicologists (e.g., clinical 
   toxicologist, fellows in training) to provide immediate consultation, 
   (either within the center or by taking call) to the clinical staff as long as a 
   qualified medical toxicologist is immediately available 24/7.   
  3.    The Medical Director shall be responsible for information  
   and recommendations related to patient care. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.11 Appropriate Medical Direction.   The poison control center shall have 
 appropriate medical direction.  The following shall represent the minimum time 
 commitment for medical direction. Additional medical direction is highly 
 desirable and may be necessary. 
1. The Medical Director must spend a minimum of 20 hours per week 
dedicated to the poison control center. At least 15 hours must be on-
site. Five (5) hours a week may be off-site if directed to activities of the 
poison control center. 
 
2. If the call volume for human exposures for the state of Mississippi 
exceeds 24,999/year, the following schedule will be used to determine 
the required Medical Director hours per week. 
 
Human exposures 
per year 
Off-site* 
hours/week 
On-site 
hours/week 
PCC total 
<<<PAGE 284>>>
284  
hours/wee
k 
0–24,999 5 15 20 
25,000–37,499 10 15 25 
37,500–49,999 10 20 30 
50,000–74,999 10 30 40 
75,000–99,999 10 40 50 
 
3.    For poison control centers in transition with medical direction or other 
special circumstances (e.g., loss of Medical Director or other 
circumstances deemed appropriate by the certifying Agency, up to 50% 
of Medical Director on-site time may be accomplished through direct 
continuous video conferencing with poison control center clinical staff.  
Availability by phone or beeper alone is not sufficient. 
 
 
4.    Time applied to medical direction must be 100% engaged in poison 
control center activities.   
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.12 Support Systems.  The poison control center shall have access to or supports 
 additional functions, including human resources, budgetary and financial 
 management, employee education, training and staff development, information 
 technology, external relations, and other administrative functions.  These roles 
 may be fulfilled by the certified poison control center director or other 
 designated individual(s). 
 
1.    The person(s) responsible for human resources shall ensure that all 
managerial and staff actions considered to be human resource functions 
are carried out according to the poison center’s policies and in 
accordance with applicable local, state, and federal laws.   
2.    The person(s) responsible for the budgetary and financial management 
shall develop, balance, and reconcile budgets; identify, manage, and 
generate revenue streams; ensures the appropriate accounting procedures 
are used, manages grants and contracts; procures equipment, supplies, 
software, hardware, and licenses; and oversees business and financial 
development. 
 
3.    The person(s) responsible for compliance with accreditation of this poison 
control center shall assure the development of internal processes for 
monitoring said poison control center’s compliance with the requirements 
as addressed in the Regulations Governing Accreditation  of Poison 
Control Centers in Mississippi and ensures adherence to federal, state, and 
local laws; regulations, and institutional policies. 
<<<PAGE 285>>>
285  
 
4.    The person(s) responsible for employee education, training, and staff 
development shall train and maintain documentation of said training for 
new employees, provide updated new information in a clear and 
consistent manner, and encourage and participate in the professional 
development of the center’s employees. 
 
5.    The person(s) responsible for information technology shall provide 
information technology support, including maintaining the center’s 
hardware and software, information transmission to the National 
Poison Data System, maintenance of confidentiality, and emergency 
backup.   
6.    The person(s) responsible for the operations and infrastructure of the 
poison control center shall be available, or have an assigned designee who 
has decision making authority available, at all times to ensure the 
continuous provision of accredited poison control center services. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 5.10.13 Documentation of Compliance.  The poison control center shall document 
 ongoing compliance with the requirement for assuring medical direction and 
 services. Documentation to reflect compliance shall be submitted as outlined 
 in the Mississippi Poison Control Center Accreditation Standards, 
 Appendix A and Appendix B.  
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mississippi Poison Control Center Accreditation Standards 
Appendix A 
Documentation of Compliance 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
1. Call center communications and infrastructure 
 
a. Describe the poison control center’s designated service region.   
<<<PAGE 286>>>
286  
 
b. Provide written documentation of state designation of the poison control center by 
the state public health authority and clearly delineate the region served. 
 
c. Submit Table1, Appendix B of the call volume and population by county. 
c.1.  Provide documentation that adequately explains the reasons for an unusually 
low county utilization rate (counties with more than 2 standard deviation rates 
below the state mean for the most recent available year). Submit a documented 
improvement plan that describes timelines, goals, and objectives for improving 
utilization of PCC services in underserved counties or equivalent regions.  
 
d. Provide a map of the designated service region. 
 
e. Describe current methods by which the center can be accessed by the public and 
health care professionals including, but not limited to, telephone, 
videoconferencing, and web access. 
 
e.1.  Describe access for hearing-impaired individuals. 
 
e.2.  Describe the poison control center’s capabilities to respond to inquiries in 
languages other than English. 
 
e.3.  Describe how the poison control center interfaces with 911 and other emergency 
operators. 
 
f. Submit call center metrics for 3 recent consecutive months for any/all local and 
national phone lines used to respond to poison control calls. 
f.1.  Total number of inbound calls.  
 
f.2.  Rate (%) of calls abandoned. This is defined as the number of abandoned calls 
divided by total incoming calls. Exclude calls with abandoned times of less than 
or equal to 12 seconds.  
 
f.3.  Average abandonment time. This is defined as the average time calls were waiting 
in queue before abandonment.  
f.4. Average time to answer a call. This is defined as the average time a call was 
waiting in queue before being answered by an agent.  
 
f.5.  Submit a detailed explanation for metrics that exceed defined acceptable service 
levels by the approved benchmark. If necessary, submit a documented 
improvement plan that describes timelines, goals, and objectives to maintain 
metrics within acceptable range.  
 
g. Describe how the poison control center uses and promotes the nationwide toll-free 
number, 1-800-222-1222. 
 
<<<PAGE 287>>>
287  
h. Provide the following documentation for all communications modalities:  
 
h.1.  all applicable triage and communication policies and procedures that were 
developed specifically for each communication modality; 
 
h.2.  a detailed description of the process for training and monitoring the quality and 
effectiveness of communication modalities. 
 
i. Describe the telephone system (e.g. call flow, interactive voice response [IVR], 
call routing, priority queue, remote locations).  
 
j. List and describe all types of communications methods, such as telephone, chat, 
and text, and information services (e.g., on topics such as flu or rabies offered by 
the center, including the annual volume of calls for each service and the presence 
or absence of separate staffing for each service). 
 
k. Provide policies and procedures that ensure poisoning calls threatening human 
health are responded to and handled appropriately. 
 
l. If call diversion is used, describe the process for call diversion and ensuring 
access to case information.  
 
m. If call diversion is used, provide evidence of coordinated patient care guidelines, 
databases and other reference material that ensures a single standard of care. 
 
n. If call diversion is used, describe how continuity of clinical care is achieved when 
routinely diverting calls to another poison control center. 
 
o. Provide response plan for natural and technological disasters to ensure business 
continuity in the event of a communications failure. 
 
p. Provide a plan for surge capacity to respond to mass poisoning exposures or 
public health events. 
 
 
 
2. Call center staffing 
 
a. Submit a listing (Table 2, Appendix B) of SPIs/CSPIs, their background and their 
work effort.  
 
a.1.  Provide a copy of the job description for a SPI/CSPI. 
 
a.2.  Submit the total number of candidates who have taken the CSPI examination over 
the past 7 years and note the pass/fail status. 
 
<<<PAGE 288>>>
288  
a.3.  Submit an explanation for any instance where a SPI has worked alone and has not 
met criteria as mentioned above. For any instance where a SPI has worked alone 
and has not met the criteria, a time -limited waiver may be granted upon the 
provision of an explanation, a time line for correction, and explanation of the 
methodology used by the medical director and managing director in assessing and 
verifying the competency of the specialist working alone. Submit the 
explanation/verification required for waiver. 
 
b.    Submit (Table 3, Appendix B), a listing of PIPs, their background and their work 
effort. (Do not include rotating residents, students or fellows.) 
 b.b.1. Provide a copy of the job description for a PIP.  
 
b.2.  Provide internal policy statements or other documents which guarantee that, while 
answering exposure calls, PIPs are always under the oversight of a CSPI, medical 
director or clinical toxicologist.        
                                                                                                                                            
b.3.  Submit Table 4, Appendix B, summarizing all poison information staff. Provide a 
copy of the SPI staffing schedule for the most recent 3 months. 
 
  c. c.1. Identify each entry as per job function. 
 
c.2.  Designate every shift that is completely or partially covered by one staff member 
alone and teleworking staff. 
 
c.3.  For non -certified SPIs working alone, submit documentation verifying that the 
individual is in process of meeting CSPI examination eligibility requirement and 
has handled 2,000 human exposure cases.  
 
d. Document total call volume and human exposure calls per SPI FTE (calls 
documented in database).  
 
d.1.  Provide an explanation for any discrepancy between call volume that drops below 
2,000 human exposures or exceeds 5,500 human exposure for CSPI/SPI/PIP. 
 
e. Describe supervisor or case management activities for certified SPIs not working 
400 hours per year and managing 500 human exposure cases per year. 
 
f. Describe the poison control center’s programs for initial orientation training, 
continuing education, and team efforts to increase the knowledge base and skill of 
the clinical staff. 
 
g. Provide a list of activities and sample of training materials for SPIs/PIPs. 
 
h. Describe evidence of staff competency assessment.  
 
<<<PAGE 289>>>
289  
i. Describe the toxicology references, including website links and list of online 
resources that are most often utilized by the staff. 
 
j. Describe the method of access for staff, including remote agents, if applicable. 
 
k. Describe the method of keeping staff aware of current trends and toxicology 
matters. 
 
l. Provide a copy of currently teleworking policy and procedures.  
 
m. Describe the technology of teleworkers for communication with the main site and 
record continuity. 
n. Provide staffing patterns for teleworkers (clearly mark teleworking staff on 3 
month schedule), include provisions for the training of students or residents 
rotating through the poison control center if all SPIs are off-site.  
 
o. Describe the specific procedure to be implemented if technical difficulties impede 
the flow of work at the remote site.  
p. Describe how the teleworker is able to access the information resources deemed 
necessary for case management.  
q. Demonstrate that clinical supervision and quality management of remote staff are 
equivalent to those for on-site staff (this includes communication with the clinical 
and/or medical toxicologist, chart review, voice recording, evaluation of staff 
performance, and staff productivity). 
r. Describe the special circumstances justifying individual SPIs teleworking over 
50% and describe how they participate in staff development activities. 
 
3. Patient management 
 
a. Provide a list, signed and dated by the Medical Director, of all clinical guidelines. 
 
b. Describe the process for establishing and reviewing patient management 
 guidelines including guidelines as to when to consult clinical and/or medical 
 toxicologist and guidelines for life threatening exposures. 
 
c. Provide explanation if less than 75% of human exposure cases with symptoms 
 managed at a HCF are followed to a known outcome. 
 
d. Describe the procedure that is followed if external resources/experts are required. 
 
e. Describe the process for locating critical antidotes and assisting with their 
 acquisition throughout the designated service region. 
 
4. Quality assurance 
<<<PAGE 290>>>
290  
 
a. Submit and describe the quality management and improvement program. Describe 
the quality management initiatives since the center’s last successful accreditation. 
 
b. Describe the procedure for internal chart audits performed. 
 
c. Submit a list of all clinical guidelines, including review dates and describe the 
process of review. 
 
d. Submit the center’s satisfaction survey tool and recent caller satisfaction survey 
results. 
 
e. Describe how the center uses customer complaints to drive its quality initiatives. 
 
f. Describe the center’s record retention policy. 
 
5. Public education 
 
a. Describe how public education is accomplished. Include goals and objectives, 
programs and activities for target populations. 
 
b. Describe how the public education is accomplished including a biographical sketch 
of the individual(s) involved and a job description and any continuing education. 
 
c. Describe efforts for identifying target populations. 
c.1.  Provide a description of the region and populations, including the geographic and 
age  distributions.                                                                                          
c.2.  Describe data-gathering methods used to assess gaps (deficiencies/discrepancies) in 
the designated service region. This needs assessment may include primary data 
sources, such as surveys, focus group findings, or key informant interviews, or 
secondary dat a sources, such as NPDS data, community health assessments, or 
census data.                                                                                                            
c.3.  Summarize your priority populations and why they were selected. 
 
d. Submit a list of public education materials and provide a summary of mass media 
activities. 
 
e. Provide a list of collaborations with other agencies or poison control centers. 
 
f. Submit a list of Collaborative Partnerships. 
 
g. Describe how education programs are impacting your service area. Examples may 
include: 
g.1.  Describe and provide examples of indicators used to measure increased awareness 
(e.g., change in call volume, survey results, increased website traffic, measured 
behavior changes).  
<<<PAGE 291>>>
291  
g.2.  Describe and provide examples of an evaluation tool(s) or method(s) used to assess 
the impact and effectiveness of your education program(s).  
 g.3.  Describe and provide examples of process evaluations used to identify potential             
or actual improvements or modifications in project/program/product improvement. 
 
6. Healthcare provider education 
a. The individual providing the healthcare provider education must be approved by 
the Medical Director. 
b. Provide a biographical sketch of the healthcare provider education staff. 
c. Describe the healthcare provider education program methods and activities. 
d. Describe the evaluation process and how the results are used to improve 
programs. 
7. Data and surveillance 
a. Describe communication mechanisms used to ensure up-to-date and consistent 
documentation. 
b. Describe the computerized data collection/medical record program and verify it is 
the most current version. 
c. Described the manner in which patient case records are stored and retrieved. 
d. Summarize the disaster recovery/back-up procedure for poison center records. 
e. If the center withholds industry-derived human exposure data, indicate the 
number of industry-derived human exposures that were withheld during the most 
recent year. 
f. Submit an annual report or the following NPDS reports:  
 f.1. Call type distribution 
 f.2 Distribution of reasons 
 f.3. Distribution of outcomes 
 f.4. Management site by referral patterns 
 
g. Submit NPDS Fatality Status Report(s). 
h. Describe efforts to ensure that consistent, complete, and accurate data are entered 
and submitted to the NPDS. 
i. Describe how your center shares information to meet the needs of local, state, and 
federal public health entities. 
j. Describe how the center routinely monitors the emergence of poisoning hazards 
and takes specific action to address them. Cite examples. 
k. Describe collaboration with local, state, and federal public health entities. 
 
<<<PAGE 292>>>
292  
8. Leadership and management 
a. Submit a current PCC organization chart. 
b. Provide a description of the leadership and administrative structure of the center. 
c. Provide job description of all toxicologists (clinical and medical) providing 
toxicology services. 
d. Provide biographical sketch of all toxicologists (clinical and medical). 
e. Provide Medical Director’s approval of all toxicologists operating within the 
PCC. 
f. Provide verification of current medical licensure. 
g. Provide evidence that the Medical Director and all other individuals designated as 
providers of medical direction have active medical staff privileges at an inpatient 
facility. 
h. Provide verification of clinical and/or medical toxicology board certification for 
the medical director and any of his/her designee(s). 
i. Provide evidence that medical toxicologist(s) or other health care provider(s) are 
(a) involved in the treatment of poisoned patients and (b) regularly consult with 
specialists in poison information.  
j. Describe how the roles and activities are divided between medical toxicologists 
and clinical toxicologists. 
k. Provide copies of the toxicologist(s) on-call schedule for the most recent 3 
months, indicating all persons taking call and designating their qualifications. 
l. Provide a copy of the time the medical toxicologist(s) and clinical toxicologist(s) 
provide clinical supervision at the PCC. 
m. Provide a copy of the poison control center’s policy regarding conditions under 
which clinical staff should contact the toxicologist on call to seek assistance with 
a case or to provide notification of a particular situation or patient, and submit a 
log of time spent  for medical direction (on-site and off-site). 
n. Submit log(s) of time spent meeting required hours for medical direction (on-site 
and off-site). 
o. Describe the purpose of a transition plan and/or special circumstances justifying 
video conferencing or other remote electronic means and demonstrate how the 
Medical Director interacts and participates in clinic staff activities. 
p. Describe the role of individual(s) performing the duties and fulfilling those 
responsibilities of human resources, budgetary and financial management, 
accreditation and compliance, employee education, training and staff 
development, information technology, external relations and other administrative 
functions. 
<<<PAGE 293>>>
293  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B attached and authorized under: 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Appendix B 
Table 1 Call Center County Data 
 
 
 
 

<<<PAGE 294>>>
294  
 

<<<PAGE 295>>>
295  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 

<<<PAGE 296>>>
296  
 

<<<PAGE 297>>>
297  
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15  
 
CHAPTER 6 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION RELATIVE TO THE 
PRACTICE OF TELEMEDICINE 
 
Subchapter 1 General: Legal Authority 
 
Rule 6.1.1 Authority. By virtue of authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated, 
§41-3-15 (4) (j), or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi State Department of 
Health (MSDH), otherwise known as the licensing agency, has the authority and 
powers, as necessary, to promulgate and adopt the following rules/ regulations, 
relative to the practice of telehealth in the State of Mississippi. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Rule 6.1.2 Regulatory Standards.  Providers/organizations that practice telehealth in the 
State of Mississippi shall comply with standards as outlined in this Chapter.  
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Subchapter 2 Definitions 
 
Rule 6.2.1 Health Professional(s). Refers to individual(s).  
 
Rule 6.2.2 Provider Entity/Organization. Includes organizations, institutions, and business 
entities, including online service entities. 
 
Rule 6.2.3 Telehealth.  The use of technology to deliver healthcare. Telehealth includes 
telemedicine, mHealth, eHealth, and Tele-Education.   
 
Rule 6.2.4 Telemedicine.  As defined in Section 25-15-9 (1) (c) of the Mississippi Code of 
1972, Annotated, “telemedicine means the delivery of healthcare services such as 
diagnosis, consultation, and treatment through the use of interactive audio, video 
or other electronic media. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15 and § 25-15-9 
 
Subchapter 3 Provisions for Standard of Care   
 
Rule 6.3.1 Standard of Care.  Practitioners and/or organizations providing medical/health 
services via telehealth shall ensure that the standard of care is maintained for a 
telehealth encounter consistent with the expectation of in-person care.  
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
<<<PAGE 298>>>
298  
Rule 6.3.2 Technology.  Practitioners and/or organizations providing medical/health services 
via telehealth shall ensure equipment and technology be adequate to provide 
information necessary to meet the in-person standard of care. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Subchapter 4 Registration 
 
Rule 6.4.1 Registration.  Pursuant to Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15, each provider 
entity/organization offering telehealth services in the State of Mississippi shall 
register with the Mississippi State Department of Health, Office of Licensure, 
hereafter referred to as the Department. An applicant shall not provide telehealth 
services in the State of Mississippi without first registering with the Department.  
 
1. Each provider entity/organization conducting telehealth services in 
Mississippi shall submit an application for registration including information 
about the type of telehealth services offered as well as the providers that will 
be performing services. Proprietary information may be asked but will not be 
required for approval.  
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15 
 
Rule 6.4.2 Documents.  In addition to the registration application as referenced above, the 
registering entity shall submit at the time of registration:  
 
1. A copy of the Mississippi Secretary of State Business Services Form as 
evidence of the entity’s registration with the Mississippi Secretary of State to 
conduct business in the State of Mississippi.  
 
2. Proof of Professional and General Liability Insurance. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Rule 6.4.3 Registration Term.  Each registration issued shall be valid for a period of 
twenty-four (24) months and shall be issued for the registration period of July 1 of 
the registration year and shall expire on June 30 two calendar years later. Should 
an entity be approved for registration after the July 1 date for registration, the 
registration date shall reflect the approval date of registration for that entity and 
will be valid until June 30 of the registration year.  
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Rule 6.4.4 Registration Not Transferable.  A Registration Certificate for a telehealth 
provider is for the stated entity as listed on the registration application and is not 
transferable.  Should a change of location (address only) occur without change of 
ownership, the entity shall notify the Department, in writing, within 10 calendar 
<<<PAGE 299>>>
299  
days of the change of address. Should a Change of Ownership occur (a sale or 
transfer of 51% or more of stock), the new ownership of the 
company/organization shall notify the Department and submit a new application. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15  
 
Rule 6.4.5 Registration Renewal.  For renewal, each registered entity shall submit: 
 
1. A completed and signed renewal registration application to be received by 
the Department at least 30 days prior to the date of expiration; and  
 
2. Proof of General and Professional Liability Insurance.  
 
Rule 6.4.6 Fees. The following fees are established for registration for businesses performing 
telemedicine services in this state; (1) initial registration fee, $50; (2) fee to report 
changes in the information on the initial registration, $50. 
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15 
 
Subchapter 5 Access 
 
Rule 6.5.1 Complaints.  Complaints received by the Department relative to telehealth 
services which indicate a potential violation of medical and/or nursing practice 
shall be logged and forwarded to the appropriate professional licensing agency.  
 
Source: Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15 
 
 
CHAPTER 40 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR PSYCHIATRIC    
HOSPITALS 
Subchapter 1   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 
Rule 40.1.1 Mississippi State Department of Health Law of 1979, Mississippi Code 
Annotated, 43-11-1 through 43-11-27 (Supplemented 1986) The Mississippi 
Health Care Commission adopted additional regulations for Psychiatric Hospitals 
on November 17, 1983. The regulations became effective December 22, 1983. 
The Mississippi State Department of Health took over the licensing duties of the 
Mississippi Health Care Commission on July 1, 1986. 
1. Psychiatric Hospitals are free-standing facilities established to offer facilities, beds 
and services over a continuous period exceeding 24 hours to individuals requiring 
diagnosis and intensive and continued clinical therapy for mental illness. Distinct 
parts of General Acute Hospitals may be designated as Psychiatric. This unit is 
organized, staffed and equipped to render psychiatric services. 
<<<PAGE 300>>>
300  
2. These standards are to be applied in conjunction with the Minimum Standards of 
Operation for Mississippi Hospitals where applicable. 
3. These standards are written so that they closely parallel the Standards for 
Accreditation of Psychiatric Facilities established by the Joint Commission on 
Accreditation of Hospitals. By basing these standards on the Joint Commission's 
standards, we have developed standards which have the input of a national panel of 
knowledgeable experts and skilled people on psychiatric treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 2   FACILITY MANAGEMENT GOVERNING BODY 
Rule 40.2.1 Every facility shall have a governing body that has overall responsibility for the 
operation of the facility. 
1. A public facility shall have a written description of the administrative organization 
of the government agency within which it operates. 
2. A public facility shall also have a written description of how the lines of authority 
within the government agency relate to the governing body of the facility. 
3. A private facility shall have a charter, constitution or bylaws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.2 The names and addresses of all owners or controlling parties of the facility 
(whether they are individuals; partnerships; corporate bodies; or subdivisions of 
other bodies, such as public agencies or religious, fraternal or other charitable 
organizations) shall be fully disclosed.  In case of corporations, the names and 
addresses of all officers, directors and principal stockholders either beneficial, or 
of record, shall be disclosed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.3 The governing body shall meet at least quarterly. 
1. Minutes of these meetings shall be kept and shall include at least the following: 
a. The date of the meeting; 
b. The names of members who attended; 
c. The topics discussed; 
d. The decisions reached and actions taken; 
e. The dates for implementation of recommendations; and 
<<<PAGE 301>>>
301  
f. The reports of the Chief Executive Officer and others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.4 The governing body shall establish a committee structure to fulfill its 
responsibilities and to assess the results of the facility's activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.5 The governing body, through the Chief Executive Officer, shall have a written 
statement of the facility's goals and objectives, as well as, written procedures for 
implementing these goals and objectives. 
1. There shall be documentation that the statement and procedures are based upon a 
planning process, and that the facility's goals and objectives are approved by the 
governing body. 
2. The governing body, through the Chief Executive Officer, shall have a written plan 
for obtaining financial resources that are consonant with the facility's goals and 
objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.6 When a categorical program (for example, a child, adolescent, or adult psychiatric 
program) is a component of a larger facility, the staff of the categorical program, 
subject to the overall responsibility of the governing body, shall be given the 
authority necessary to plan, organize and operate the program. The categorical 
program shall hire and assign its own staff. The categorical program shall employ 
a sufficient number of qualified and appropriately trained staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.7 The governing body, through its Chief Executive Officer, shall develop policies 
and shall make sufficient resources available (for example, funds, staff, 
equipment, supplies and facilities) to assure that the program is capable of 
providing appropriate and adequate services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.8 The facility's physical and financial resources shall be adequately insured. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.9 The governing body shall establish bylaws, rules and regulations, and a table of 
organization to guide relationships between itself and the responsible 
administration and professional staffs and the community. 
<<<PAGE 302>>>
302  
1. The governing body may establish one set of bylaws, rules and regulations that 
clearly delineates the responsibilities and authority of the governing body and the 
administrative and professional staff. 
2. Administrative and professional staffs may establish separate bylaws, rules and 
regulations that are consistent with policies established by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.10 All bylaws, rules and regulations shall comply with legal requirements, be 
designed to encourage high quality patient care, and be consistent with the 
facility's community responsibility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.11 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the powers and duties of the 
governing body and its officers and committees; or the authority and 
responsibilities of any person legally designed to function as the governing body, 
as well as, the authority and responsibility delegated to the responsible 
administrative and professional staffs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.12 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the eligibility criteria for governing 
body membership; the types of membership and the method of selecting 
members; frequency of governing body meetings; the number of members 
necessary for a quorum and other attendance requirements for governing body 
meetings; the requirement that meetings be documented in the form of written 
minutes and the duration of appointment or election for governing body members, 
officers and committed chairpersons. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.13 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the qualifications, authority and 
responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.14 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify the method for appointing the 
Chief Executive Officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.15 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the administrative and 
professional staffs with the authority and freedom necessary to carry out their 
responsibilities within the organizational framework of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 303>>>
303  
Rule 40.2.16 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the professional staff with the 
authority necessary to encourage high quality patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.17 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the procedures under which the 
administrative and professional staff cooperatively function. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.18 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the establishment of controls 
designed to encourage each member of the professional staff to observe the 
standards of the profession and assume and carry out functions in accordance with 
local, state and federal laws and rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.19 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the professional staff bylaws, 
rules and regulations to be subject to governing body approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.20 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify procedures for selecting 
professional staff officers, directors and department or service chiefs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.21 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that physicians with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses and clinical privileges evaluate and authenticate medical 
histories and physical examinations and prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.22 Such bylaws, rules and regulations may also allow dentists with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses and clinical privileges to prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.23 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the procedure for conferring 
clinical privileges on all professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.24 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the responsibilities of physicians 
in relation to non-physician members of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 304>>>
304  
Rule 40.2.25 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide a mechanism through which the 
administrative and professional staffs report to the governing body. 
Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the means by which the 
administrative and professional staffs participate in the development of facility 
and program policies concerning program management and patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.26 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require an orientation program for new 
governing body members and a continuing education program for all members of 
the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.2.27 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that the bylaws, rules and 
regulations be reviewed at least every two years, revised as necessary, and signed 
and dated to indicate the time of last review. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 3   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Rule 40.3.1 The governing body shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer who shall be 
employed on a full-time basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.2 The qualifications, authority and duties of the Chief Executive Officer shall be 
stated in the governing body's bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.3 The Chief Executive Officer shall be a health professional with appropriate 
professional qualifications and experience, including previous administrative 
responsibility in a health facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.4 The Chief Executive Officer shall have a medical degree or at least a master's 
degree in administration, psychology, social work, education or nursing; and, 
when required, should have appropriate licenses. Experience may be substituted 
for a professional degree when it is carefully evaluated, justified and documented 
by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 305>>>
305  
Rule 40.3.5 In facilities primarily serving children or adolescents, the Chief Executive Officer 
shall have appropriate professional qualifications and experience, including 
previous administrative responsibility in a facility for children or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.6 In accordance with the facility's bylaws, rules and regulations, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall be responsible to the governing body for the overall 
operation of the facility, including the control, utilization and conservation of its 
physical and financial assets and the recruitment and direction of staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.7 The Chief Executive Officer shall assist the governing body in formulating policy 
by preparing the following items and presenting them to and reviewing them with 
the governing body: 
1. Long-term and short-term plans of the facility. 
2. Reports on the nature and extent of funding and other available resources. 
3. Reports describing the facility's operations. 
4. Reports evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of facility or program activity; 
and 
5. Budgets and financial statements. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.8 The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible for the preparation of a written 
manual that defines the facility policies and procedures and that is regularly 
revised and updated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.3.9 There shall be documentation that the Chief Executive Officer attends and 
participates in continuing education programs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 4   PROFESSIONAL STAFF ORGANIZATION 
Rule 40.4.1 There shall be a single organized professional staff that has the overall 
responsibility for the quality of all clinical care provided to patients, and for the 
ethical conduct and professional practices of its members, as well as, for 
accounting therefore to the governing body. The manner in which the professional 
staff is organized shall be consistent with the facility's documented staff 
organization and bylaws, rules and regulations, and pertain to the setting where 
<<<PAGE 306>>>
306  
the facility is located. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and the 
rules and regulations of the governing authority shall require that a qualified 
physician be responsible for diagnosis and all care and treatment. The 
organization of the professional staff and its bylaws, rules and regulations, shall 
be approved by the facility's governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.4.2 There professional staff shall strive to assure that each member is qualified for 
membership and shall encourage the optimal level of professional performance of 
its members through the appointment/reappointment procedure, the specific 
delineation of clinical privileges, and the periodic reappraisal of each staff 
member according to the provisions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 5   QUALIFICATIONS 
Rule 40.5.1 The appointment and reappointment of professional staff member shall be based 
upon well defined, written criteria that are related to the goals and objectives of 
the facility as stated in the bylaws, rules and regulations of the professional staff 
and of the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.5.2 Upon application or appointment to the professional staff, each individual must 
sign a statement to the effect that he or she has read and agrees to be bound by the 
professional staff and governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.5.3 The initial appointment and continued professional staff membership shall be 
dependent upon professional competence and ethical practice in keeping with the 
qualifications, standards and requirements set forth in the professional staff and 
governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.5.4 Unless otherwise provided by law, only those practitioners who are licensed, 
certified, or registered, or who have demonstrated competence and experience, 
shall be eligible for professional staff membership. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 6   METHOD OF SELECTION 
Rule 40.6.1 Each facility is responsible for developing a process of appointment to the 
professional staff whereby it can satisfactorily determine that the person is 
<<<PAGE 307>>>
307  
appropriately licensed, certified, registered, or experienced, and qualified for the 
privileges and responsibilities he or she seeks. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 7   PRIVILEGE DELINEATION 
Rule 40.7.1 Privileges shall be delineated for each member of the professional staff, regardless 
of the type and size of the facility and the age and disability group served. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.7.2 The delineation of privileges shall be based on all verified information available 
in the applicant's or staff member's credentials file. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.7.3 Clinical privileges shall be facility-specific. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.7.4 The professional staff shall delineate in its bylaws, rules and regulations the 
qualifications, status, clinical duties, and responsibilities of clinical practitioners 
who are not members of the professional staff but whose services require that they 
be processed through the usual professional staff channels. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.7.5 The training, experience and demonstrated competence of individuals in such 
categories shall be sufficient to permit their performing their assigned functions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.7.6 There shall be provisions for individuals in such categories to receive professional 
supervision, when indicated, from their professional counterparts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 8   REAPPOINTMENT 
Rule 40.8.1 The facility's professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide for 
review and reappointment of each professional staff member at least once every 
two years. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.8.2 The reappointment process should include a review of the individual's status by a 
designated professional staff committee, such as the credentials committee. 
<<<PAGE 308>>>
308  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.8.3 When indicated, the credentials committee shall require the individual to submit 
evidence of his or her current health status that verifies the individual's ability to 
discharge his or her responsibilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.8.4 The committee's review of the clinical privileges of a staff member for 
reappointment should include the individual's past and current professional 
performance, as well as, his or her adherence to the governing body and 
professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.8.5 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall limit the time within 
which the professional staff reappointment and privilege delineation processes 
must be completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 9   ORGANIZATION 
Rule 40.9.1 The professional staff shall be organized to accomplish its required functions. The 
professional staff organization must provide a framework in which the staff can 
carry out its duties and functions effectively. The complexity of the organization 
shall be consonant with the size of the facility and the scope of its activities. 
(Although not all members of professional health care disciplines need to be 
members of the professional staff, membership may include active staff, 
consulting staff, affiliate staff, associate staff and others according to the needs of 
the facility.) 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.9.2 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide for the selection 
of officers for an executive committee, and, when appropriate, for other 
organizational components of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.9.3 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations should specify the 
organization needed to provide effective governance of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 10 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
<<<PAGE 309>>>
309  
Rule 40.10.1 The executive committee shall be empowered to act for the professional staff in 
the intervals between the staff meetings. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.10.2 The committee shall serve as a liaison mechanism between the professional staff 
and the administration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.10.3 There shall be a mechanism that assures medical participation in the deliberations 
of the executive committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.10.4 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the size, 
composition, method of selecting members and frequency of meetings of the 
executive committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.10.5 The executive committee shall maintain a permanent record of its proceedings 
and actions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.10.6 The functions and responsibilities of the executive committee shall include at 
least the following: 
1. Receiving and acting upon reports and recommendations from a professional staff 
committees, departments and services. 
2. Implementing the approved policies of the professional staff. 
3. Recommending to the governing body all matters relating to appointments and 
reappointments, staff categorization and assignments, clinical privileges, and 
except when such is a function of the professional staff or one of its committees, 
corrective action. 
4. Fulfilling the professional staff's accountability to the governing body for the 
quality of the overall clinical care rendered to the patients in the facility; and 
5. Initiating and pursuing corrective action when warranted, in accordance with the 
provisions of the professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 11 PROFESSIONAL STAFF BYLAWS 
<<<PAGE 310>>>
310  
Rule 40.11.1 The professional staff shall develop and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to   
establish a framework of self-government and a means of accountability to the 
governing body. 
1. The bylaws, rules and regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing 
body. 
2. The professional staff shall regulate itself by its bylaws, rules and regulations. 
3. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall reflect current staff 
practices, shall be enforced and shall be periodically reviewed and revised as 
necessary. 
4. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include a requirement for 
an ethical pledge from each practitioner. 
5. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the specific role 
of each discipline represented on the professional staff or exercising clinical 
privileges in the care of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.11.2 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include the following 
patient record requirements: 
1. Symbols and abbreviations shall be used only when they have been approved by 
the professional staff and when there is an explanatory legend; 
2. The categories of personnel who are qualified to accept and transcribe verbal 
 orders, regardless of the mode of transmission of the orders, shall be specifically 
identified; 
3. The period of time following admission to the facility within which a history and 
physical examination must be entered in the patient record shall be specified; 
4. The time period in which patient records must be completed following discharge 
shall be specified and shall not exceed fourteen (14) days; and 
5. The entries in patient records that must be dated and authenticated by the 
responsible practitioner shall be specified. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.11.3 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify mechanisms for 
the regular review, evaluation and monitoring of professional staff practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 311>>>
311  
Rule 40.11.4 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide a procedure 
relative to denial of staff appointments and reappointments, as well as, for denial, 
curtailment, suspension, or revocation of clinical privileges. When appropriate, 
this procedure shall provide for a practitioner to be heard, upon request, at some 
stage of the process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 12 WRITTEN PLAN FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
Rule 40.12.1 The facility shall formulate and specify in a written plan for professional services 
its goals, objectives, policies and programs so that its performance can be 
measured. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.2 The plan shall describe the services offered by the facility so that a frame of 
reference for judging the various aspects of the facility's operation is available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.3 The written plan for professional services shall describe the following: 
1. The population served, including age groups and other relevant characteristics of 
the patient population; 
2. The hours and days the facility operates; 
3. The methods used to carry out initial screening and/or triage; 
4. The intake or admission process; including how the initial contact is made with 
 the patient and the family or significant others; 
5. The assessment and evaluation procedures provided by the facility; 
6. The methods used to deliver services to meet the identified clinical needs of 
patients served; 
7. The basic therapeutic programs offered by the facility; 
8. The treatment planning process and the periodic review of therapy; 
9. The discharge and post-therapy planning processes; 
10. The organizational relationships of each of the facility's therapeutic programs, 
including channels of staff communication, responsibility and authority, as well as, 
supervisory relationships; and 
<<<PAGE 312>>>
312  
11. The means by which the facility provides, or makes arrangements for the 
provision of the following: 
a. Other medical, special assessments and therapeutic services; 
b. Patient education services, whether provided from within or outside the facility; 
c. Emergency services and crisis intervention; and 
d. Discharge and aftercare, including post-therapy planning and follow-up 
evaluation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.4 When the facility is organized by departments or services, the written plan for 
professional services shall describe how each department or service relates to the 
goals and other programs of the facility, specify lines of responsibility within 
each department of service and define the roles of department or service 
personnel and the methods for interdisciplinary collaboration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.5 When a facility is organized on a team or unit basis, either totally or in part, the 
written plan for professional services shall delineate the roles and responsibilities 
of team members in meeting the identified clinical needs of patients and in 
relation to the goals and programs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.6 The written plan for professional services shall be made known and available to 
all professional personnel and to the Chief Executive Officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.7 The plan shall be reviewed at least annually, and revised as necessary, in relation 
to the changing needs of the patients, the community, and the overall objectives 
and goals of the facility, and it shall be signed and dated by the reviewers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.8 Within the scope of its activities, the facility shall have enough appropriately 
qualified health care professional, administrative and support staff available to 
adequately assess and address the identified clinical needs of patients. 
Appropriately qualified professional staff may include qualified psychiatrists and 
other physicians, clinical psychologists, social workers, psychiatric nurses and 
other health care professionals in numbers and variety appropriate to the services 
offered by the facility. 
<<<PAGE 313>>>
313  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.9 When appropriate qualified professional staff members are not available or 
needed on a full-time basis, arrangements shall be made to obtain sufficient 
services on an attending continuing consultation, or part-time basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.10 Facilities providing child and adolescent psychiatric services shall have available 
appropriately qualified mental health professionals and paraprofessionals 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
1. Child psychiatrists; 
2. Child psychologists; 
3. Social workers; 
4. Psychiatric nurses; 
5. Child care workers; 
6. Educators; 
7. Speech, hearing and language specialists; 
8. Activity and recreation specialists; and 
9. Vocational counselors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.11 The staff shall be assigned full-time to the child/adolescent program and not 
shared with other programs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.12 The staff shall be specially trained to meet the needs of adolescents and children. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.12.13 There shall be documentation to verify that health care professional staff meets all 
federal, state and local requirements for licensing, registration or certification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 13 STAFF COMPOSITION:  PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 314>>>
314  
Rule 40.13.1 Psychiatric services are under the supervision of a clinical director, service chief 
or equivalent, who is qualified to provide the leadership required for an intensive 
treatment program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.13.2 The director shall be certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and 
Neurology, or meet the training and experience requirements for examination by 
the Board (Board eligible). In the even the psychiatrist in charge of the clinical 
program is Board eligible, there is evidence of consultation given to the clinical 
program on a continuing basis from a psychiatrist certified by the American 
Board of Psychiatry and neurology. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.13.3 The number of psychiatrists is commensurate with the size and scope of the 
treatment program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.13.4 All psychiatrists shall be licensed by the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 14 MEDICAL SERVICES 
Rule 40.14.1 Physicians shall be available at all times to provide necessary medical and 
surgical diagnostic and treatment services, including specialized services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.14.2 If medical and surgical diagnosis and treatment services are not available within 
the institution, qualified consultants or attending physicians are immediately 
available or arrangements are made to transfer patients to a general hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 15 NURSING SERVICES 
Rule 40.15.1 Nursing services shall be under the direct supervision of a registered nurse who 
has had at least two (2) years of experience in psychiatric or mental health nursing 
and at least one (1) year of experience in a supervisory position. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.15.2 The number of registered professional nurses, licensed practical nurses, and other 
nursing personnel shall be adequate to formulate and carry out the nursing 
components of the individual treatment plan for each patient. 
<<<PAGE 315>>>
315  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.15.3 There shall be a registered professional nurse on duty 24 hours a day, seven days 
a week, to plan, assign, supervise and evaluate nursing care and to provide for the 
delivery of nursing care to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 16 PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES 
Rule 40.16.1 Patients shall be provided psychological services, in accordance with their needs 
by a qualified psychologist. 
1. Services to patients include evaluations, consultations, therapy and program 
development. 
2. A qualified psychologist is an individual by the State Board of Psychological 
Examiners with a specialty area in Clinical or Counseling Psychology (refer to 
Mississippi Code of 1972, annotated and amended. Section 73-31-10). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 17 SOCIAL SERVICES 
Rule 40.17.1 Social work services are under the supervision of a qualified social worker. The 
director of the service or department shall have a master's degree from an 
accredited school of social work, or have been certified by the Academy of 
Certified Social Workers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.17.2 Social work staff is qualified and numerically adequate to provide the following 
services: 
1. Psychosocial data for diagnosis and treatment planning. 
2. Direct therapeutic services to individual patients, patient groups or families. 
3. Develop community resources. 
4. Participate in interdisciplinary conferences and meetings concerning treatment 
planning, including identification and utilization of other facilities and alternative 
forms of care and treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 18 REHABILITATIVE SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 316>>>
316  
Rule 40.18.1 Qualified therapists, consultants, assistants or aides are sufficient in number to 
provide comprehensive therapeutic activities, including at least occupational, 
recreational and physical therapy as needed to assure that appropriate treatment is 
rendered for each patient and to establish a therapeutic milieu. 
1. Occupational therapy services are prescribed by a physician and provided to a 
patient by or under the direction of a qualified occupational therapist. 
2. A qualified occupational therapist is an individual who is registered by the 
American Occupational Therapy Association; or is a graduate of a program in 
occupational therapy approved by the Council on medical Education of the 
American Medical Association and engaged in the supplemental clinical experience 
required before registration by the American Occupational Therapy Association. 
3. Physical therapy services are prescribed by a physician and provided to a patient by 
or under the direction of a qualified therapist. 
4. A qualified physical therapist is an individual who is a graduate of a program of 
physical therapy approved by both the Council on Medical Education of the 
American Medical Association and the American Physical Therapy Association; 
and who is licensed by the State. 
5. Recreation services shall be supervised by a qualified recreation therapist. The 
qualified recreation therapist shall meet one of the following definitions: 
a. A qualified therapeutic recreation specialist; or 
b. A bachelor's degree in recreation and one (1) year of recreational experience in a 
health care setting; or 
c. An associate degree in recreation or in a specialty area such as art or music plus 
completion of comprehensive in-service training in recreation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 19 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 40.19.1 Personnel policies and procedures shall be developed in writing, adopted and 
maintained to promote the objectives of the facility and to provide for an adequate 
number of qualified personnel during all hours of operation to support the 
functions of the facility and the provision of high quality care. 
1. All personnel policies shall be reviewed and approved on an annual basis by the 
governing body. 
2. There shall be documentation to verify that the written personnel policies and 
procedures are explained and made available to each employee. 
<<<PAGE 317>>>
317  
3. The policies and procedures shall include a mechanism for determining that all 
personnel are medically and emotionally capable of performing assigned tasks and 
are free of communicable and infectious diseases. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.19.2 There shall be written policies and procedures for handling cases of patient 
neglect and abuse. 
The policies and procedures on patient neglect or abuse shall be given to all personnel. 
Any alleged violations of these policies and procedures shall be investigated, and 
the results of such investigation shall be reviewed and approved by the director 
and reported to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.19.3 A personnel record shall be kept on each staff member and shall contain the 
following items, as appropriate: 
1. Application for employment; 
2. Written references and a record of verbal references; 
3. Verification of all training and experience, licensure, certification, registration 
and/or renewals. 
4. Wage and salary information; 
5. Performance appraisals; 
6. Initial and subsequent health clearances; 
7. Disciplinary and counseling actions; 
8. Commendations; 
9. Employee incident reports; 
10. Record of orientation to the facility, its policies and procedures and the 
employee's position. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.19.4 For each position in the facility, there shall be a written job description that 
specifies the duties and responsibilities of the position and the minimum level of 
education, training and/or related work experience required or needed to fulfill it. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 318>>>
318  
Subchapter 20 STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 40.20.1 The facility shall have a written plan of evidence of implementation of a program 
of staff development and in-service training that is consonant with the basic goals 
and objectives of the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.2 Staff development shall be under the supervision and direction of a committee or 
qualified person. 
This person or committee may delegate responsibility for any part of the program to 
appropriately qualified individuals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.3 The staff development plan shall include plans for orientation of new employees 
and shall specify subject areas to be covered in the orientation process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.4 Staff development program shall reflect all administrative and service changes in 
the facility and shall prepare personnel for promotions and responsibilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.5 A continuous professional education program shall be provided to keep the 
professional staff informed of significant clinical and administrative 
developments and skills. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.6 The facility shall provide continuing training for all staff and specific orientation 
for all new personnel in the principles of confidentiality, privacy, patients' rights, 
infection control, fire prevention, disaster preparedness, accident prevention and 
patient safety. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.7 Specialized training shall be provided for staff working with children and 
adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.20.8 The facility shall have documentation of the staff development, in-service 
training and orientation activities of all employees. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 319>>>
319  
Subchapter 21 PATIENT RIGHTS 
Rule 40.21.1 The facility shall support and protect the fundamental human, civil, constitutional 
and statutory rights of each patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.2 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that describe the rights of 
patients and the means by which these rights are protected and exercised. These 
rights shall include the following: 
1. Each patient shall have impartial access to treatment, regardless of race, religion, 
sex, ethnicity, age or disabilities. 
2. Each patient's personal dignity shall be recognized and respected in the provision of 
all care and treatment. 
3. Each patient shall receive individualized treatment, which shall include at least the 
following: 
a. The provision of adequate and human services regardless of source(s) of 
financial support; 
b. The provision of services within the least restrictive environment possible; 
c. The provision of an individual treatment plan; 
d. The periodic review of the patient's treatment plan; 
e. The active participation of patients over twelve (12) years of age and their 
responsible parent, relative, or guardian in planning for treatment; and 
f. The provision of an adequate number of competent, qualified and experienced 
professional clinical staff to supervise and implement the treatment plan. 
4. Each patient's personal privacy shall be assured and protected within the constraints 
of the individual treatment plan. 
a. The patient's family and significant others, regardless of their age, shall be 
allowed to visit the patient, unless such visits are clinically contraindicated. 
b. Suitable areas shall be provided for patients to visit in private, unless such 
privacy is contraindicated by the patient's treatment plan. 
c. Patients shall be allowed to send and receive mail without hindrance. 
d. Patients shall be allowed to conduct private telephone conversations with family 
and friends, unless clinically contraindicated. 
<<<PAGE 320>>>
320  
e. If therapeutic indications necessitate restrictions on visitors, telephone calls, or 
other communications, those restrictions shall be evaluated for therapeutic 
effectiveness by the clinically responsible staff at least every seven days. 
f. If limitations on visitors, telephone calls or other communications are indicated 
for practical reasons (for example, expense of travel or phone calls) such 
limitations shall be determined with the participation of the patient and the 
patient's family. All such restrictions shall be fully explained to the patient and 
the patient's family. 
5. Each patient has the right to request the opinion of a consultant at his or her 
expense or to request an in-house review of the individual treatment plan, as 
provided in specific procedures of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.3 Each patient shall be informed of his or her rights in a language the patient 
understands. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.4 Each patient shall receive a written statement of patient rights and a copy of this 
statement shall be posted in various areas of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.5 As appropriate, the patient, the patient's family or the patient's legal guardian shall 
be fully informed about the following items: 
1. The rights of patients; 
2. The professional staff members responsible for his or her care, their professional 
status and their staff relationship; 
3. The nature of the care, procedures and treatment that he or she will receive; 
4. The current and future use and disposition of products of special observation and 
audiovisual techniques, such as one-way vision mirrors, tape recorders, television, 
movies or photographs; 
5. The risks, side effects and benefits of all medications and treatment procedures 
used, especially those that are unusual or experimental; 
6. The alternate treatment procedures that are available; 
7. The right to refuse to participate in any research project without compromising his 
or her access to facility services; 
<<<PAGE 321>>>
321  
8. The right to the extent permitted by law, to refuse specific medications or treatment 
procedures; 
9. The responsibility of the facility when the patient refuse treatment, to seek 
appropriate legal alternatives or orders of involuntary treatment, or, in accordance 
with professional standards, to terminate the relationship with the patient upon 
reasonable notice; 
10. As appropriate, the cost, itemized when possible, of services rendered; 
11. The source of the facility's reimbursement and any limitations placed on duration of 
services; 
12. The reasons for any proposed change in the professional staff responsible for the 
patient, or for any transfer of the patient either within or outside of the facility. 
13. The rules and regulations of the facility applicable to his or her conduct; 
14. The right to initiate a complaint or grievance procedure and the appropriate means 
of requesting a hearing or review of the complaint; 
15. The discharge plans; and 
16. The plans for meeting continuing mental and physical health requirements 
following discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.6 In accordance with the requirements of any applicable law or any other applicable 
standard in this manual, a written, dated and signed informed consent form shall 
be obtained from the patient, the patient's family or the patient's legal guardian, as 
appropriate, for participation in any research project and for use or performance 
of the following: 
1. Surgical procedures; 
2. Electroconvulsive therapy; 
3. Unusual medications; 
4. Hazardous assessment procedures; 
5. Audiovisual equipment; and 
6. Other procedures where consent is required by law. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 322>>>
322  
Rule 40.21.7 The maintenance of confidentiality of communications between patients and staff 
and of all information recorded in patient records shall be the responsibility of all 
staff. (Refer to the patient records section of this manual.)  The facility shall 
provide continuing training for all staff and specific orientation for all new 
personnel in the principles of confidentiality and privacy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.21.8 The patient shall be allowed to work for the service provider only under the 
following conditions: 
1. The work is part of the individual treatment plan; 
2. The work is performed voluntarily; 
3. The patient receives wages commensurate with the economic value of the work; 
and 
4. The work project complies with local, state and federal laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 22 SPECIAL TREATMENT PROCEDURES 
Rule 40.22.1 Treatment procedures that require special justification shall include, but not 
necessarily be limited to the following: 
1. The use of restraint; 
2. The use of seclusion; 
3. The use of electroconvulsive therapy and other forms of convulsive therapy; 
4. The performance of psychosurgery of other surgical procedures for the intervention 
in, or alteration of, a mental, emotional or behavioral disorder; 
5. The use of behavior modification procedures that use painful stimuli; 
6. The use of unusual medications and investigational and experimental drugs; 
7. The prescribing and administering of drugs for maintenance use that have abuse 
potential (usually considered to be Schedule II drugs), and drugs that are known to 
involve substantial risk or to be associated with undesirable side effects; and 
8. The use of research projects that involve inconvenience or risk to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 323>>>
323  
Rule 40.22.2 The rationale for using special treatment procedures shall be clearly stated in the 
patient's record. 
1. When appropriate, there shall be evidence in the patient's record that proposed 
special treatment procedures have been reviewed before implementation by the 
head of the professional staff and/or his or her designee. 
2. The plan for using special treatment procedures shall be consistent with the 
patient's rights and the facility's policies governing the use of such procedures. 
3. The clinical indications for the use of special treatment procedures shall be 
documented in the patient's record. 
4. The clinical indications for the use of special treatment procedures shall outweigh 
the known contraindications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of 
restraint or seclusion. 
1. The use of restraint or seclusion shall require clinical justification and shall be 
employed only to prevent a patient from injuring himself or others, or to prevent 
serious disruption of the therapeutic environment. Restraint or seclusion shall not 
be employed as punishment or for the convenience of staff. 
2. The rationale for the use of restraint or seclusion shall address the inadequacy of 
less restrictive intervention techniques. 
3. To ascertain that the procedure is justified, a physician shall conduct a clinical 
assessment of the patient before writing an order for the use of restraint or 
seclusion. 
4. A written order from a physician shall be required for the use of restraint. 
5. A written order from a physician shall be required for the use of seclusion for 
longer than one (1) hour. 
6. Written orders for the use of restraint or seclusion shall be time-limited. 
7. The written approval of the head of the professional staff and/or his or her designee 
shall be required when restraint or seclusion is utilized for longer than 24 hours. 
8. PRN orders shall not be used to authorize the use of restraint or seclusion. 
9. All uses of restraint or seclusion shall be reported daily to the head of the 
professional staff and/or his or her designee. 
<<<PAGE 324>>>
324  
10. The head of the professional staff and/or his or her designee shall review daily all 
uses of restraint or seclusion and investigate unusual or possibly unwarranted 
patterns of utilization. 
11. Staff, who implement written orders for restraint and seclusion, shall have 
documented training in the proper use of the procedure for which the order was 
written. 
12. Restraint or seclusion shall not be used in a manner that causes undue physical 
discomfort, harm or pain to the patient. 
13. Appropriate attention shall be paid every 15 minutes to a patient in restraint or 
seclusion, especially in regard to regular meals, bathing and use of the toilet. 
14. There shall be documentation in the patient's record that such attention was given 
to the patient. 
15. Under the following conditions, restraint or seclusion may be employed in an 
emergency without a written order from a physician: 
a. the written order for restraint or seclusion is given by a member of the 
professional staff who is qualified by experience and training in the proper use 
of the procedure for which the order is written; 
b. the professional staff member writing the order has observed and assessed the 
patient before writing the order; and 
c. the written order of the physician who is responsible for the patient's medical 
care is obtained within not more than eight (8) hours after initial employment of 
the restraint or seclusion. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.4 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of 
electroconvulsive therapy and other forms of convulsive therapy. 
1. The written informed consent of the patient for the use of electroconvulsive therapy 
or other forms of convulsive therapy shall be obtained and made part of the 
patient's record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
2. When required, the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian for 
the use of electroconvulsive therapy or other forms of convulsive therapy shall be 
obtained and made part of the patient's record. The family and/or guardian may 
withdraw consent at any time. 
3. In cases dealing with children or adolescents, the responsible parent(s), relative or 
guardian, and, when appropriate, the patient shall give written, dated and signed 
informed consent for the use of electroconvulsive therapy or other forms of 
<<<PAGE 325>>>
325  
convulsive therapy. The family and/or guardian and, when appropriate, the child or 
adolescent patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.5 Electroconvulsive therapy or other forms of convulsive therapy shall not be 
administered to children or adolescents unless, prior to the initiation of treatment, 
two (2) qualified psychiatrists who have training or experience in the treatment of 
children and adolescents and who are not affiliated with the treating program have 
examined the patient, have consulted with the responsible psychiatrist, and have 
written and signed reports in the patient's record that concur with the decision to 
administer such therapy.  The record of patients under the age of thirteen (13) 
shall contain documentation that such examinations and consultations were 
carried out by qualified child psychiatrists. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.6 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the 
performance of psychosurgery or other surgical procedures for the intervention 
in, or alteration of, a mental, emotional or behavioral disorder in an adult patient. 
1. Psychosurgery shall not be performed on any adult patient unless, prior to the 
initiation of such treatment, a qualified psychiatrist and a neurosurgeon who are not 
affiliated with the treating program have examined the patient, have consulted with 
the responsible psychiatrist and have written and signed reports in the patient's 
record that concur with the decision to perform psychosurgery. 
2. The patient's record shall contain documentation of such examinations and 
consultations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.7 The written informed consent of the adult patient for the performance of 
psychosurgery or other surgical procedures for the intervention in, or alteration of, 
a mental, emotional, or behavioral disorder shall be obtained and made part of the 
patient's record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. When required, 
the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian for the 
performance of psychosurgery or other surgical procedures for the intervention in, 
or alteration of, a mental, emotional or behavioral disorder in an adult patient 
shall be obtained and made part of the patient's record. The family and/or 
guardian may withdraw consent at any time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.8 The facility shall have policies that prohibit the performance of psychosurgery or 
other surgical procedures for the intervention in, or alteration of a mental, 
emotional or behavioral disorder in children or adolescents. 
<<<PAGE 326>>>
326  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.9 Behavior modification procedures that use painful stimuli shall be documented in 
the patient's record.Such documentation shall include the rationale or justification 
for the use of the procedure, the required authorization, a description of the 
procedures employed to protect the patient's safety and rights, and a description of 
the behavior modification procedures to be used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.10 The written informed consent of the patient for the use of behavior modification 
procedures that use painful stimuli shall be obtained and made part of the patient's 
record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
1. When required, the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian 
shall be obtained and made part of the patient's record. The family and/or guardian 
may withdraw consent at any time. 
2. In cases dealing with children or adolescents, the responsible parent(s), relative or 
guardian and, when appropriate, the patient shall given written, dated and signed 
informed consent. The family and/or guardian and, when appropriate, the child or 
adolescent patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.11 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of 
unusual medications and investigational and experimental drugs. 
1. Unusual or experimental drugs shall be reviewed before use by the research review 
committee, the patient rights' review committee, or another appropriate peer review 
committee. 
2. Investigational drugs shall be used only under the direct supervision of the 
principal investigator and with the approval of the physician members of the 
professional staff or an appropriate committee of the professional staff, the research 
review committee and appropriate federal, state and local agencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.12 A central unit shall be established to maintain essential information on 
investigational drugs, such as drug dosage form, dosage range, storage 
requirements, adverse reactions, usage and contraindications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.13 Investigational drugs shall be properly labeled. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 327>>>
327  
Rule 40.22.14 Nurses may administer investigational drugs only after receiving basic 
pharmacologic information about the drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.15 The written informed consent of the patient for the use of unusual medications or 
investigational or experimental drugs shall be obtained and made part of the 
patient's record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
1. When required, the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian for 
the use of unusual medication or investigational or experimental drugs shall be 
obtained and made part of the patient record. The family and/or guardian may 
withdraw consent at any time. 
2. In cases dealing with children and adolescents, the responsible parent(s), relative, 
or guardian and, when appropriate, the patient shall give written, dated and signed 
informed consent, unless prohibited by law. The family an/or guardian and, when 
appropriate, the child or adolescent patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
3. The denial of consent to take unusual medications of investigational or 
experimental drugs shall not be cause for denying or altering services indicated for 
the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.16 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the prescribing 
and administering of drugs for maintenance use that have abuse potential (usually 
considered to be Schedule II drugs), and drugs that are known to involve a 
substantial risk or be associated with undesirable side effects. 
1. Drugs that have abuse potential shall be prescribed and administered for 
maintenance use only when the following criteria are met: 
a. A physician member of the professional staff has reviewed the patient's record 
and has recorded the reasons for prescribing the drug(s) in the patient's record; 
b. The prescribed drug is listed in the facility's formulary; and 
c. Prior to the administration of the drug, the patient and, when required by law, 
the patient's parent(s) or guardian are informed orally and in writing, and, if 
possible, in the patient's native language, of the benefits and hazards of the drug. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.22.17 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that protect the rights of 
patients involved in research projects that involve inconvenience or risk to the 
patient. The policies and procedures shall require a statement of the rationale for 
<<<PAGE 328>>>
328  
a patient's participation in any research project that involves inconvenience to 
risk to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 23 PATIENT RECORDS 
Rule 40.23.1 A patient record shall be maintained, in accordance with accepted professional 
principles, for each patient admitted for care in the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.2 Such records shall be kept confidential and only authorized personnel shall have 
access to the record. Staff members and other persons having access to patient 
records shall be required to abide by the written policies confidentiality of patient 
records and disclosure of information in the record, as well as, all applicable 
federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that protect the 
confidentiality of patient records and govern the disclosure of information in the 
records. The policies and procedures shall specify the conditions under which 
information on applicants or patients may be disclosed and the procedures for 
releasing such information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.4 A patient or his or her authorized representative may consent to the release of 
information provided that written consent is given on a form containing the 
following information: 
1. Name of patient; 
2. Name of program; 
3. The name of the person, agency or organization to which the information is to be 
disclosed; 
4. The specific information to be disclosed; 
5. The purpose for the disclosure; 
6. The date the consent was signed and the signature of the individual witnessing the 
 consent; 
7. The signature of the patient, parent, guardian or authorized representative; and 
8. A notice that the consent is valid only for a specified period of time. 
<<<PAGE 329>>>
329  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.5 The written consent of a patient, or his or her authorized representative, to the 
disclosure of information shall be considered valid only if the following 
conditions have been met: 
1. The patient or the representative shall be informed, in a manner calculated to assure 
his or her understanding, of the specific type of information that has been requested 
and, if known, the benefits and disadvantages of releasing the information; 
2. The patient or the representative shall give consent voluntarily; 
3. The patient or the representative shall be informed that the provision of services is 
not contingent upon his or her decision concerning the release of information; and 
4. The patient's consent shall be acquired in accordance with all applicable federal, 
state and local laws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.6 Every consent for release of information, the actual date the information was 
released, the specific information released, and the signature of the staff member 
who released the information shall be made a part of the patient record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.7 In a life-threatening situation or when an individual's condition or situation 
precludes the possibility of obtaining written consent, the facility may release 
pertinent medical information to the medical personnel responsible for the 
individual's care without the individual's consent and without the authorization of 
the Chief Executive Officer or a designee, if obtaining such authorization would 
cause an excessive delay in delivering treatment to the individual. 
1. When information has been released under emergency conditions, the staff member 
responsible for the release of information shall enter all pertinent details of the 
transaction into the individual's record including at least the following items: 
a. The date the information was released; 
b. The person to whom the information was released; 
c. The reason the information was released; 
d. The reason written consent could not be obtained; and 
e. The specific information released. 
2. The patient or applicant shall be informed that the information was released as soon 
as possible after the release of information. 
<<<PAGE 330>>>
330  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.23.8 Patient records shall not be removed from the facility except upon subpoena and 
court order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 24 PRESERVATION AND STORAGE 
Rule 40.24.1 Records shall be preserved, either in the original or by microfilm, for a period of 
time not less than that determined by the statute of limitations in the State of 
Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.24.2 Written policies and procedures shall govern the compilation, storage, 
dissemination and accessibility of patient records. The policies and procedures 
shall be designed to assure that the facility fulfills its responsibility to safeguard 
and protect the patient record against loss, unauthorized alteration, or disclosure 
of information; to assure that each patient record contains all required 
information; to uniformity in the format and forms in use in patient records; to 
require entries in patient records to be dated and signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.24.3 The facility shall provide facilities for the storage, processing and handling of 
patient records, including suitably locked and secured rooms and files. When a 
facility stores patient data on magnetic tape, computer files, or other types of 
automated information systems, adequate security measures shall prevent 
inadvertent or unauthorized access to such data. A written policy shall govern the 
disposal of patient records. Methods of disposal shall be designed to assure the 
confidentiality of information in the records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 25 PERSONNEL 
Rule 40.25.1 The patient records department shall maintain, control and supervise the patient 
records, and shall be responsible for maintaining the quality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.25.2 A qualified medical record individual who is employed on at least a part-time 
basis, consistent with the needs of the facility and the professional staff, shall be 
responsible for the patient records department. This individual shall be a 
registered record administrator or an accredited record technician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 331>>>
331  
Rule 40.25.3 When it can be demonstrated that the size, location or needs of the facility do not 
justify employment of a qualified individual, the facility must secure the 
consultative assistance of a registered record administrator at least twice a year to 
assure that the patient record department is adequate to meet the needs of the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 26 CENTRALIZATION OF REPORTS 
Rule 40.26.1 All clinical information pertaining to a patient's stay shall be centralized in the 
patient's record. 
1. The original or all reports originating in the facility shall be filed in the medical 
record. 
2. Appropriate patient records shall be kept on the unit where the patient is being 
treated and shall be directly accessible to the clinician caring for the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 27 CONTENT OF RECORDS 
Rule 40.27.1 The medical record shall contain sufficient information to justify the diagnosis 
and warrant the treatment and end results. The patient record shall describe the 
patient's health status at the time of admission, the services provided and the 
patient's progress in the facility, and the patient's health status at the time of 
discharge. The patient record shall provide information for the review and 
evaluation of the treatment provided to the patient. When appropriate, data in the 
patient record shall be used in training, research, evaluation and quality assurance 
programs. When indicated, the patient record shall contain documentation that the 
rights of the patient and of the patient's family are protected. The patient record 
shall contain documentation of the patient's and, as appropriate, family members' 
involvement in the patient's treatment program. When appropriate, a separate 
record may need to be maintained on each family member involved in the 
patient's treatment program. The patient record shall contain identifying data that 
is recorded on standardized forms. This identifying data shall include the 
following: 
1. Full name; 
2. Home address; 
3. Home telephone number; 
4. Date of birth; 
5. Sex; 
<<<PAGE 332>>>
332  
6. Race or ethnic origin; 
7. Next of kin; 
8. Education; 
9. Marital status; 
10. Type and place of employment; 
11. Date of initial contact or admission to the facility; 
12. Legal status, including relevant legal documents; 
13. Other identifying data as indicated; 
14. Date the information was gathered; and 
15. Signature of the staff member gathering the information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.2 The patient record shall contain information on any unusual occurrences such as 
the following: 
1. Treatment complications; 
2. Accidents or injuries to the patient; 
3. Morbidity; 
4. Death of a patient; and 
5. Procedures that place the patient at risk or that cause unusual pain. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.3 As necessary, the patient record shall contain documentation of the consent of the 
patient, appropriate family members or guardians for admission, treatment, 
evaluation, aftercare or research. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.4 The patient record shall contain both physical and psychiatric diagnoses that have 
been made using a recognized diagnostic system. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 333>>>
333  
Rule 40.27.5 The patient record shall contain reports of laboratory, roentgenographic, or other 
diagnostic procedures and reports of medical/surgical services when performed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.6 The patient record shall contain correspondence concerning the patient's 
treatment, and signed and dated notations of telephone calls concerning the 
patient's treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.7 A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's record within a reasonable 
period of time (not to exceed 14 days) following discharge as determined by the 
professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.8 The patient record shall contain a plan for aftercare. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.9 All entries in the patient record shall be signed and dated. Symbols and 
abbreviations shall be used only if they have been approved by the professional 
staff, and only when there is an explanatory legend. Symbols and abbreviations 
shall not be used in the recording of diagnoses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.27.10 When a patient dies, a summation statement shall be entered in the record in the 
form of a discharge summary. The summation statement shall include the 
circumstances leading to death and shall be signed by a physician. An autopsy 
shall be performed whenever possible. When an autopsy is performed, a 
provisional anatomic diagnosis shall be recorded in the patient's record within 72 
hours. The complete protocol shall be made part of the record within three (3) 
months. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 28 PROMPTNESS OF RECORD COMPLETION 
Rule 40.28.1 Current records shall be completed promptly upon admission. Records of patients 
discharged shall be completed within 14 days following discharge. The staff 
regulations of the facility shall provide for the suspension or termination of staff 
privileges of physicians who are persistently delinquent in completing records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 29 IDENTIFICATION, FILING AND INDEXING 
<<<PAGE 334>>>
334  
Rule 40.29.1 A system of identification and filing to ensure the prompt location of a patient's 
medical record shall be maintained. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.29.2 The patient index cards shall bear at least the full name of the patient, the address, 
the birth date and the medical record number. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.29.3 Records shall be indexed according to disease and physician, and shall be kept up 
to date. For indexing, any recognized system may be used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.29.4 Indexing shall be current within six (6) months following discharge of the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 30 FACILITY AND PROGRAM EVALUATION 
Rule 40.30.1 Program evaluation is a management tool primarily utilized by the facility's 
administration to assess and monitoring, on a priority bases, a variety of facility, 
service and programmatic activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.2 The facility shall have a written statement of goals and objectives. 
1. The goals and objectives shall result from a planning process. 
2. The goals and objectives shall be related to the needs of the population served. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.3 The written statement of the goals and objectives of the facility service and 
programmatic activities shall be provided to the governing body and facility 
administration and shall be made available to staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.4 The facility shall have a written plan for evaluating its progress in attaining its 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.5 The written plan shall specify the information to be collected and the methods to 
be used in retrieving and analyzing this information. 
<<<PAGE 335>>>
335  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.6 The written plan shall specify methods for assessing the utilization of staff and 
other resources to meet facility goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.7 The written plan shall specify when evaluations shall be conducted. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.8 The written plan shall specify the criteria to be used in assessing the facility's 
progress in attaining its goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.9 The written plan shall require an explanation of any failure to achieve facility 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.10 There shall be documentation that the goals and objectives of facility, service 
and programmatic activities shall be evaluated at least annually and revised as 
necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.11 There shall be documentation that the results of the evaluation shall be provided 
to the governing body and facility administration and shall be made available to 
staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.30.12 There shall be documentation that the findings of the evaluation have influenced 
facility and program planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 31 FISCAL MANAGEMENT 
Rule 40.31.1 The facility shall annually prepare a formal, written budget of expected revenues 
and expenses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.2 The budget shall categorize revenues for the facility by source. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 336>>>
336  
Rule 40.31.3 The budget shall categorize expenses by the types of services of programs 
provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.4 The budget shall be reviewed and approved by the governing body prior to the 
beginning of the fiscal year. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.5 Revisions made in the budget during the fiscal year shall be reviewed and 
approved by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.6 The fiscal management system shall include a fee schedule. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.7 The facility shall maintain current, written schedules of rate and charge policies 
that have been approved by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.31.8 The fee schedule shall be accessible to personnel and to individuals served by the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 32 UTILIZATION REVIEW 
Rule 40.32.1 The facility shall demonstrate appropriate allocation of its resources by 
conducting a utilization review program. The program shall address 
underutilization, over-utilization and inefficient scheduling of the facility's 
resources. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.2 The facility shall implement a written plan that describes the utilization review 
program and governs its operations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.3 The written plan shall include at least the following:  
1. a delineation of the responsibilities and authority of those involved in utilization 
review activities, including members of the professional staff, the utilization 
review committees, the administration, and when applicable, any qualified outside 
organization contracted to perform review activities;  
<<<PAGE 337>>>
337  
2. a conflict of interest policy applicable to everyone involved in utilization review 
activities;  
3.  a confidentiality policy applicable to all utilization review activities and to 
resultant findings and recommendations;  
4. a description of the method(s) used to identify utilization-related problems;  
5.  the procedures for conducting concurrent review; and  
6.  a mechanism for initiating discharge planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.4 The written plan shall be approved by the professional staff, the administration, 
and the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.5 The methods for identifying utilization-related problems shall include analysis of 
the appropriateness and clinical necessity of admission, continued stays, and 
supportive services; analysis of delays in the provision of supportive services; and 
examination of the findings of related quality assurance activities and other 
current relevant documentation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.6 Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, profile analyses; the 
results of patient care evaluation studies, medication usage reviews, and infection 
control activities; and reimbursement agency utilization reports that are 
program/service-specific. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.7 To identify problems and document the impact of corrective actions taken, 
retrospective monitoring of the facility's utilization of resources shall be ongoing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.8 The procedures for conducting concurrent review shall specify the time period 
following admission within which the review is to be initiated and the length-of-
stay norms and percentiles to be used in assigning continued stay review dates. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.9 Sources of payment shall not be the sole basis for determining which patients are 
to be reviewed concurrently. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 338>>>
338  
Rule 40.32.10 Written measurable criteria and length-of-stay norms that have been approved by 
the professional staff shall be utilized in performing concurrent review and shall 
be included in, or appended to, the facility's utilization review plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.11 Length-of-stay norms must be specific to diagnoses, problems, or procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.12 To facilitate discharge when care is no longer required, discharge planning shall 
be initiated as soon as the need for it can be determined. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.13 Criteria for initiating discharge planning may be developed to identify those 
patients whose diagnoses, problems or psychosocial circumstances usually require 
discharge planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.14 Discharge planning shall not be limited to placement in long term facilities, but 
shall also include provision for, or referral to, services that the patient may require 
to improve or maintain his or her mental health status. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.15 The facility's utilization review program, including the written plan, criteria, and 
length-of-stay norms, shall be reviewed and evaluated at least annually and 
revised as necessary to reflect the findings of the program's activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.16 A record shall be maintained or reviews of, and revisions to, the utilization review 
program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.32.17 The findings of such reviews shall be reported to the appropriate committee of the 
professional staff and to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 33 INDIVIDUALIZED COMPREHENSIVE TREATMENT 
PLANNING: INTAKES 
Rule 40.33.1 Written policies and procedures governing the intake process shall specify the 
following: a. the information to be obtained on all applicants or referrals for 
admission; b. the records to be kept on all applicants; c. the statistical data to be 
<<<PAGE 339>>>
339  
kept on the intake process; and d. the procedures to be followed when an 
applicant or a referral is found ineligible for admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.2 Criteria for determining the eligibility of individuals for admission shall be clearly 
stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.3 The intake procedure shall include an initial assessment of the patient. 
1. The intake assessment shall be done by professional staff. The results of the intake 
assessment shall be clearly explained to the patient. 
2. The results of the intake assessment shall be clearly explained to the patient's 
family when appropriate. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.4 Acceptance of a patient for treatment shall be based on an intake procedure that 
results in the following conclusions: a. the treatment required by the patient is 
appropriate to the intensity and restrictions of care provided by the facility or 
program component; and/or b. the treatment required can be appropriately 
provided by the facility or program component; and c. the alternatives for less 
intensive and restrictive treatment are not available.  The patient record shall 
contain the source of any referral. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.5 During the intake process, every effort shall be made to assure that applicants 
understand the following: a. the nature and goals of the treatment program; b. the 
treatment costs to be borne by the patient, if any; and c. the rights and 
responsibilities of patients, including the rules governing patient conduct and the 
types of infractions that can result in disciplinary action or discharge from the 
facility or program component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.6 Facilities shall have policies and procedures that adequately address the following 
items for each patient: a. responsibility for medical and dental care, including 
consents for medical or surgical care and treatment; b. when appropriate, 
arrangements for family participation in the treatment program; c. arrangements 
for clothing, allowances, and gifts; d. arrangements regarding the patient's 
departure from the facility or program; and e. arrangements regarding the patient's 
departure from the facility or program against clinical advice. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 340>>>
340  
Rule 40.33.7 When a patient is admitted on court order, the rights and responsibilities of the 
patient and the patient's family shall be explained to them. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.8 This explanation of the rights and responsibilities of the patient and the patient's 
family shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.9 Sufficient information shall be collected during the intake process to develop a 
preliminary treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.33.10 Staff members who will be working with the patient but who did not participate in 
the initial assessment shall be informed about the patient prior to meeting him or 
her. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 34 ASSESSMENTS 
Rule 40.34.1 Within 72 hours of admission, the staff shall conduct a complete assessment of 
each patient's needs. The assessment shall include, but shall not necessarily be 
limited to physical, emotional, behavioral, social, recreational, nutritional, and 
when appropriate, legal and vocational. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.2 A licensed physician shall be responsible for assessing each patient's physical 
health. The health assessment shall include a medical history; a physical 
examination; and neurological examination when indicated and a laboratory 
workup. The physical examination shall be completed within 24 hours after 
admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.3 In facilities serving children and adolescents, each patient's physical health 
assessment shall also include evaluations of the following: motor development and 
functioning; sensorimotor functioning; speech, hearing, and language functioning, 
visual functioning; and immunization status. Facilities serving children and 
adolescents shall have all necessary diagnostic tools and personnel available to 
perform physical health assessments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 341>>>
341  
Rule 40.34.4 A registered nurse shall be responsible for obtaining a nursing history and 
assessment at the time of admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.5 A psychiatric evaluation of each patient shall be completed and entered in the 
patient's record.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.6 The evaluation shall include, but not be limited to, the following items: a. a 
history of previous emotional, behavioral, and psychiatric problems and 
treatment; b. the patient's current emotional and behavioral functioning; c. when 
indicated, psychological assessments, including intellectual and personality 
testing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.7 A social assessment of each patient shall be completed by the qualified social 
worker and entered in the patient's record. The assessment shall include 
information relating to the following areas, as necessary:  
1. environment and home  
2.  religion  
3. childhood history  
4. military service history  
5. financial status  
6. the social, peer-group, and environmental setting from which the patient comes; 
and g. the patient's family circumstances, including the constellation of the family 
group, the current living situation, and social, ethnic, cultural, emotional, and health 
factors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.8 A recreational assessment of each patient shall be completed by the qualified 
recreational director and shall include information relating to the individual's 
current skills, talents, aptitudes, and interests. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.9 A nutritional assessment shall be conducted by the food service supervisor or 
registered dietitian and shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 342>>>
342  
Rule 40.34.10 When appropriate, a vocational assessment of the patient shall be undertaken and 
shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas: a. vocational therapy b. 
educational history, including academic and vocational training, and c. a 
preliminary discussion between the individual and the staff member doing the 
assessment concerning the individual's past experiences with, and attitudes toward 
work, present motivations or areas of interest, and possibilities for future 
education, training, and employment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.34.11 When appropriate, a legal assessment of the patient shall be undertaken and shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following areas:  
1. A legal history; and 
2. A preliminary discussion to determine the extent to which the individual's legal 
situation will influence his or her progress in treatment and the urgency of the legal 
situation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 35 TREATMENT PLANS 
Rule 40.35.1 Each patient shall have a written individual treatment plan that is based on 
assessments of his or her clinical needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.2 Overall development and implementation of the treatment plan shall be assigned 
to an appropriate member of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.3 The treatment plan shall be developed as soon as possible after the patient's 
admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.4 Appropriate therapeutic efforts may begin before a fully developed treatment plan 
is finalized. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.5 Upon admission, a preliminary treatment plan shall be formulated on the basis of 
the intake assessment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 343>>>
343  
Rule 40.35.6 Within 72 hours following admission a designated member of the treatment team 
shall develop an initial treatment plan that is based on at least an assessment of 
the patient's presenting problems, physical health, emotional status, and 
behavioral status. This initial treatment plan shall be utilized to implement 
immediate treatment objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.7 If a patient's stay in a facility is ten days or less, only a discharge summary will be 
required in addition to the initial treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.8 If a patient's stay in a facility exceeds ten days, the interdisciplinary team shall 
develop a master treatment plan that is based on a comprehensive assessment of 
the patient's needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.9 The master treatment plan shall contain objectives and methods for achieving 
them. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.10 The treatment plan shall reflect the facility's philosophy of treatment and the 
participation of staff from appropriate disciplines. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.11 The treatment plan shall reflect consideration of the patient's clinical needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.12 The treatment plan shall specify the services necessary to meet the patient's needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.13 The treatment plan shall include referrals for needed services that are not 
provided directly by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.14 The treatment plan shall contain specific goals that the patient must achieve to 
attain, maintain, and/or reestablish emotional and/or physical health as well as 
maximum growth and adaptive capabilities. These goals shall be based on 
assessments of the patient and, as appropriate, the patient's family. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 344>>>
344  
Rule 40.35.15 The treatment plan shall contain specific objectives that relate to the goals, are 
written in measurable terms, and include expected achievement dates. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.16 The treatment plan shall describe the services, activities, and programs planned 
for the patient, and shall specify the staff members assigned to work with the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.17 The treatment plan shall specify the frequency of treatment procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.18 The treatment plan shall delineate the specific criteria to be met for termination of 
treatment. Such criteria shall be a part of the initial treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.19 When appropriate, the patient shall participate in the development of his or her 
treatment plan, and such participation shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.35.20 A specific plan for involving the family or significant others shall be included in 
the treatment plan when indicated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 36 PROGRESS NOTES 
Rule 40.36.1 Progress notes shall be recorded by the physician, nurse, social worker and, when 
appropriate, others significantly involved in treatment. The frequency of progress 
notes is determined by the condition of the patient but should be recorded at least 
weekly for the first two (2) months and at least monthly thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.36.2 Progress notes shall be entered in the patient's record and shall include the 
following: a. documentation of implementation of the treatment plan b. 
documentation of all treatment rendered to the patient c. description of change in 
the patient's condition; and d. descriptions of the response of the patient to 
treatment, the outcome of treatment, and the response of significant others to 
important intercurrent events. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.36.3 Progress notes shall be dated and signed by the individual making the entry. 
<<<PAGE 345>>>
345  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.36.4 All entries involving subjective interpretation of the patient's progress should be 
supplemented with a description of the actual behavior observed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 37 TREATMENT PLAN REVIEW 
Rule 40.37.1 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be regularly conducted to review and 
evaluate each patient's treatment plan and his or her progress in attaining the 
stated treatment goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.37.2 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be documented, and the results of the 
review and evaluation shall be recorded in the patient's record. The review and 
update shall be completed no later than thirty (30) days following the first 10 days 
of treatment and at least every 60 days thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 38 DISCHARGE PLANNING/AFTERCARE 
Rule 40.38.1 The facility maintains a centralized coordinated program to ensure that each 
patient has a planned program of continuing care which meets his post-discharge 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.2 Each patient shall have an individualized discharge plan which reflects input from 
all disciplines involved in his care. The patient, patient's family, and/or significant 
others shall be involved in the discharge planning process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.3 Discharge planning data shall be collected at the time of admission or within   
seven (7) days thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.4 The Chief Executive Officer shall delegate the responsibility for discharge 
planning, in writing, to one or more staff members. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.5 The facility shall maintain written discharge planning policies and procedures 
which describe:  
<<<PAGE 346>>>
346  
1. How the discharge coordinator will function, and his authority and relationships 
with the facility's staff;  
2. The time period in which each patient's need for discharge planning is determined 
(within seven days after admission).  
3. The maximum time period after which re-evaluation of each patient's discharge 
plan is made.  
4. Local resources available to the facility and the patient to assist in developing and 
implementing individual discharge plan; and e. Provisions for periodic review and 
re-evaluation of the facility's discharge planning program (at least annually). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.6 An interdisciplinary case conference shall be held prior to the patient's discharge. 
The discharge/aftercare plan shall be reviewed with the patient, patient's family 
and/or significant others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.38.7 The facility shall have documentation that the aftercare plan has been 
implemented and shall have documentation of follow-ups to assure referrals to 
appropriate community agencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 39 DISCHARGE SUMMARY 
Rule 40.39.1 A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's record within fourteen (14) 
days following discharge. The discharge summary shall include but not be 
limited to: a. reason for admission b. brief summary of treatment c. reason for 
discharge d. assessment of treatment plan goals and objectives. 
Recommendations and arrangements for further treatment, including prescribed 
medications and aftercare. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 40 SUPPORT SERVICES:  PHARMACY 
Rule 40.40.1 Direction and Supervision:  The hospital shall have a pharmacy directed by a 
registered pharmacist, who has had, by education or experience, training in the 
specialized area of hospital pharmacy. The pharmacy or drug room shall be 
administered in accordance with accepted professional principles. The pharmacist 
shall be assisted, as needed, by additional qualified pharmacists and ancillary 
personnel. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 347>>>
347  
Rule 40.40.2 Pharmacy assistants shall work under the supervision of a pharmacist and shall 
not be assigned duties that are required to be performed only by registered 
pharmacists. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.40.3 Provision shall be made for emergency pharmaceutical services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.40.4 If the hospital has 50 beds or less, and if no full-time pharmacists are employed 
by the hospital; and if medications administered to patients in the hospital are 
dispensed by pharmacist(s) elsewhere (i.e. outside the hospital)...then the hospital 
must have arrangements with a consultant pharmacist who shall supervise all 
matters pertaining to medication handling in the hospital. The hospital must have 
a written agreement with the consultant pharmacist to provide services on a 
routine basis to the hospital. The consultant pharmacist must make regular visits 
to the hospital to ensure the proper procurement, storage, recordkeeping, 
administration, and disposal of medications within the hospital. The consultant 
pharmacist must submit a written report, at least monthly, to the administrator 
upon the status of the performance of nursing personnel in the areas of drug 
handling as mentioned above. The report shall include any discrepancies in 
recordkeeping the consultant pharmacist finds during his/her inspection of the 
hospital. The consultant pharmacist shall meet all other requirements for 
Pharmacist as outlined under the other Subchapters 40 through 50. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 41 RECORDS 
Rule 40.41.1 Records shall be kept of the transactions of the pharmacy (or drug room) and 
correlated with other hospital records where indicated. Such special records shall 
be kept as required by law. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.41.2 The pharmacy shall establish and maintain a satisfactory system of records and 
accountability in accordance with the policies of the hospital for maintaining 
adequate control over the requisitioning and dispensing of all drugs and 
pharmaceutical supplies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.41.3 A record of the stock on hand and of the dispensing of all narcotic drugs shall be 
maintained in such a manner that the disposition of any particular item may be 
readily traced. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 348>>>
348  
Rule 40.41.4 Where possible, the label of each outpatient's individual prescription medication 
container shall bear the lot and control number of the drug, the name of the 
manufacturer (or trademark) and, unless the physician directs otherwise, the name 
of the medication dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 42 CONTROL OF TOXIC OR DANGEROUS DRUGS 
Rule 40.42.1 Policies shall be established to control the administration of toxic or dangerous 
drugs with specific reference to the duration of the order and the dosage. The 
facility shall establish a written policy that all toxic or dangerous medications, not 
specifically prescribed as to time or number of doses, shall be automatically 
stopped after a reasonable time limit. The classification ordinarily thought of as 
toxic, dangerous or abuse drugs shall be varcotics, sedatives, anticoagulants, 
antibiotics, oxytocics and cortisone products, and shall include other categories so 
established by federal, state or local laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 43 DRUGS TO BE DISPENSED 
Rule 40.43.1 The pharmacist, with the advice and guidance of the pharmacy and therapeutics 
committee, shall be responsible for specifications as to quality, quantity, and 
source of supply of all drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.2 There shall be available a formulary or list of drugs accepted for use in the facility 
which is developed and amended at regular intervals by the pharmacy and 
therapeutics committee (or equivalent committee) with the cooperation of the 
pharmacist and the administration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.3 The pharmacy of drug room shall be adequately supplied with preparations as 
approved. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.4 Committee. There shall be a pharmacy and therapeutics committee (or equivalent 
committee), composed of physicians and pharmacists, and registered professional 
nurses, established in the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.5 It shall represent the organization line of communication and the liaison between 
the professional staff and the pharmacist. 
<<<PAGE 349>>>
349  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.6 The committee shall assist in the formulation of board professional policies 
regarding the evaluation, appraisal, selection, procurement, storage, distribution, 
use, and safety procedures, and all other matters relating to drugs in hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.7 The committee shall perform the following specific functions: a. Serve as an 
advisory group to the professional staff and the pharmacist on matters pertaining 
to the choice of drugs; b. develop and review periodically a formulary or drug list 
for use in the facility; c. establish standards concerning the use and control of 
investigational drugs and research in the use of recognized drugs; d. evaluate 
clinical data concerning new drugs or preparations requested for use in the 
facility; e. make recommendations concerning drugs to be stocked on the nursing 
unit floors and by other services; and f. prevent unnecessary duplication in 
stocking drugs and drugs in combination having identical amounts of the same 
therapeutic ingredients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.43.8 The committee shall meet at least quarterly and report to the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 44 MEDICATION CONTROL 
Rule 40.44.1 The facility shall have written policies and procedures designed to ensure that all 
medications are dispensed and administered safely and properly in accordance 
with the applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.2 Medication orders shall be written only by authorized prescribers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.3 An up-to-date list of authorized prescribers shall be available in all areas where 
medication is dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.4 Telephone orders shall be accepted only from individuals on the list of authorized 
prescribers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.5 Telephone orders shall be limited to emergency situations that have been defined 
in writing in the facility's policies and procedures manual. 
<<<PAGE 350>>>
350  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.6 Telephone orders shall be accepted and written in the patient's record only by 
staff authorized to administer medication. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.7 Telephone orders shall be signed by an authorized prescriber on the next regular 
working day, but in all events within 72 hours. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.8 A written order signed by the authorized prescriber shall be include in patient's 
record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.9 Medication orders that contain abbreviations and chemical symbols shall be 
carried out only if the abbreviations and symbols are on a standard list approved 
by the physician members of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.10 There shall be automatic stop orders on specified medications. Refer to Rule 
40.34. 1. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.11 There shall be a specific routine of drug administration, indicating dose schedules 
and standardization of abbreviations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.12 Only pharmacists, physicians, registered nurses, or licensed practical nurses shall 
administer medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.13 Self administration of medication shall be permitted only when specifically 
ordered by the responsible physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.14 Drugs brought into the facility by patients shall not be administered unless they 
can be absolutely identified, and unless written orders to administer these 
specific drugs are given by the responsible physician. If the drugs that the patient 
brings to the facility are not to be used, they shall be packaged, sealed, and 
stored, and, if approved by the responsible physician, they shall be returned to 
the patient, family, or significant others at the time of discharge. 
<<<PAGE 351>>>
351  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.15 The patient and, when appropriate, the family shall be instructed about which 
medications, if any, are to be administered at home. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.16 Medications administered, medication errors, and adverse drug reactions shall be 
documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.17 Facilities should implement a reporting system under which the reporting 
program of the federal Food and Drug Administration and the drug 
manufacturer are advised of unexpected adverse drug reactions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.18 There shall be methods of detecting drug side effects or toxic reactions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.19 Investigational drugs shall be used only under the direct supervision of the 
principal investigator and with the approval of research review committee and 
either the physician members of the professional staff or an appropriate 
committee of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.20 A central unit shall be established where essential information on investigational 
drugs, such as dosage form, dosage range, storage requirements, adverse 
reactions, usage, and contraindications, is maintained. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.21 Investigational drugs shall be properly labeled. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.22 Nurses may administer investigational drugs only after receiving basic 
pharmacologic information about the drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.23 The facility shall have specific methods for controlling and accounting for drug 
products. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 352>>>
352  
Rule 40.44.24 The pharmacy service shall maintain records of its transactions as required by 
law and as necessary to maintain adequate control of, and accountability for, all 
drugs. These records shall document all supplies issued to units, departments, or 
services of the facility, as well as all prescription drugs dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.25 Records and inventories of the drugs listed in the current Comprehensive Drug 
Abuse Prevention and Control Act shall be maintained as required by the act 
and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.44.26 Distribution and administration of controlled drugs are adequately documented, 
and inspections of these records by the pharmacist is documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 45 EMERGENCY MEDICATION KIT 
Rule 40.45.1 There is an emergency kit that is: a. made up under the supervision and 
responsibility of the pharmacist, and approved by the Pharmacy and Therapeutic 
Committee; b. readily available to staff yet not accessible to patients; c. constituted 
so as to be appropriate to the needs of the patients; and d. inspected monthly to 
remove deteriorated and outdated drugs and to ensure completeness of content. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.45.2 The pharmacist responsible for the emergency kit shall provide a list of its 
contents and appropriate instructions, and shall authenticate this list with his 
signature. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 46 STORAGE OF DRUGS 
Rule 40.46.1 Drug storage shall be maintained in accordance with the security requirements of 
federal, state, and local laws. Drug preparation areas and drug storage areas shall 
be well-lighted and shall be so located that personnel will not be interrupted when 
handling drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.46.2 All drugs shall be kept in locked storage. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.46.3 Poisons, external drugs, and internal drugs shall be stored on separate shelves or 
in separate cabinets. 
<<<PAGE 353>>>
353  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.46.4 Medications that are stored in a refrigerator containing items other than drugs 
shall be kept in a separate compartment or container with proper security. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.46.5 Antidote charts and the telephone number of the Regional Poison Control Center 
shall be kept in all drug storage and preparation areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 47 SPACE FOR STORAGE OF DRUGS 
Rule 40.47.1 Adequate space shall be provided in the Pharmacy for storage of drugs and for 
keeping of necessary records. The pharmacy shall be capable of being securely 
locked in accordance with regulations regarding storage of dangerous drugs. 
Adequate space is defined on a minimum of 350 square feed for 50 beds or less; 
500 sq. feet for 75 beds or less; 750 sq. ft. for 100 beds of less, and 1000 sq. ft. for 
100 beds or more. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.47.2 If the hospital has 50 beds or less, and if no full-time pharmacists are employed 
by the hospital, and if medications administered to patients in the hospital are 
dispensed by pharmacist(s) elsewhere (i.e. outside the hospital)...then only the 
storage of pre-dispensed, individual medications (either medication containers or 
unit-dose medications) shall be allowed in the hospital. The exception is for the 
allowance for Emergency Medications as outlined in Rule 40.45.1 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.47.3 Storage of medications, as outlined directly above, in the hospital shall be in an 
area to measure not less than 100 square feet of space. This storage area is to be 
designated as the Medication 
Preparation Area/Room, and is to have the following personality:  
1. Medication Refrigerator (for storage or drugs and biologicals); 
2. Handwashing lavatory with hot water capability, and paper towel dispenser. 
3. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have self-closing self-locking door(s); 
4. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have its own environment control, i.e., its 
own thermostats and regulator of heating and air-conditioning. The air temperature 
in the Medication Preparation Area/Room is not to exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit or 
fall below 50 degrees Fahrenheit. 
<<<PAGE 354>>>
354  
5. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have counter-top space provided for 
medication preparation adequate to meet the needs of the hospital, but not less than 
18 square feet of space (the hospital may ask for a variance of this requirement if 
medication carts are utilized with a unit-dose drug delivery system). 
6. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have special, securely constructed cabinet(s) 
or area, adequate in size, for the storage of controlled substances in the hospital (the 
hospital may ask for a variance of this requirement if medication carts are utilized 
which are equipped with securely constructed controlled substance cabinets(s). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 48 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES 
Rule 40.48.1 A pharmacist shall regularly review the medication records of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.48.2 All medication orders shall be reviewed monthly by the responsible physician. 
Adverse drug reactions and medication errors shall be reported to the physician 
responsible for the patient, and shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.48.3 The pharmacist in charge of dispensing medications shall provide for monthly 
inspection of all storage units including emergency boxes and emergency carts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.48.4 A record of these inspections shall be maintained in order to verify the following: 
1. Disinfectants and drugs for external use are stored separately from internal and 
injectable medications. 
2. Drugs requiring special conditions for storage to ensure stability are properly 
stored. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 49 FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND SANITATION 
Rule 40.49.1 Adequate precautions shall be taken to store medications under proper conditions 
of sanitation, temperature, light, moisture, ventilation, segregation, and security. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.49.2 All drugs shall be kept in locked storage. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 355>>>
355  
Rule 40.49.3 Security shall be maintained in accordance with local and state laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.49.4 Poisons, external drugs, and internal drugs shall be stored on separate shelves or 
in separate containers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.49.5 Drugs preparation and storage areas shall be well lighted and shall be located 
where personnel will not be interrupted when handling drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.49.6 Metric-apothecaries' weight and measure conversion charts shall be posted in 
each drug preparation area and wherever else they are needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 50 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Rule 40.50.1 The director of the pharmacy service shall receive orientation in the specialization 
functions of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.50.2 A pharmacist should participate in staff development programs for the clinical 
staff.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.50.3 As appropriate, a pharmacist should participate in public education and 
information programs relative to the services of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.50.4 Up-to-date pharmaceutical reference material shall be provided so that 
appropriate staff will have adequate information concerning drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.50.5 Current editions of text and reference books covering the following topics shall be 
provided; theoretical and practical pharmacy; general, organic, pharmaceutical, 
and biological chemistry; toxicology; pharmacology; bacteriology; sterilization 
and disinfection; and other subjects important to good patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 51 DIETARY:  ORGANIZATION 
<<<PAGE 356>>>
356  
Rule 40.51.1 The facility shall have an organized dietary department directed by a qualified 
food service supervisor, with services of a registered dietitian on at least a 
consultant basis. However, a facility which has a contract with an outside food 
management company may be found to meet this requirement if the company has 
a therapeutic dietitian who serves, as required by scope and complexity of the 
services, on a full-time, part-time, or consultant basis to the facility. If the 
dietitian is not employed full-time a certified food service supervisor should direct 
the dietary department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.2 The qualified dietitian shall be registered or eligible for registration by the 
Commission on Dietetic Registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.3 When a qualified dietitian is employed on a part-time or consultative basis, the 
dietitian shall devote enough time to accomplish the following tasks: 
1. Assure continuity of services; 
2. Direct the nutritional aspects of patient care; 
3. Assure that dietetic instructions are carried out; 
4. On occasion, supervise the serving of meals; and assist in the evaluation of the 
dietetic services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.4 Regular written reports shall be submitted to the Chief Executive Officer on the 
extent of services provided by the dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.5 There shall be written policies and procedures for food storage, preparation, and 
service developed by a registered dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.6 The dietetic service shall have an adequate number of appropriately qualified 
individual to meet the dietetic needs of the facility's patients. Dietetic service 
personnel shall assist patients when necessary in making appropriate food 
choices from the planned daily menu. Dietetic services personnel shall be made 
aware that emotional factors may cause patients to change their food habits. 
Dietetic service personnel shall inform appropriate members of the professional 
staff of any change in a patient's food habits. 
<<<PAGE 357>>>
357  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.7 Written job descriptions of all dietary employees shall be available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.8 There shall be procedures to control dietary employees with infectious and open 
lesions. Routine health examinations shall meet local and state codes for food 
service personnel. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.51.9 There shall be an on-going planned in-service training program for dietary 
employees which includes the proper handling of food and personal grooming, 
safety, sanitation, behavioral and therapeutic needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 52 FACILITIES 
Rule 40.52.1 Adequate space, equipment, ventilation and supplies as well as any necessary 
written procedure and precautions, shall be provided for the safe and sanitary 
operation of the dietetic service and the safe and sanitary handling and 
distribution of food. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.2 The food service area should be appropriately located. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.3 The dietitian's office should be easily accessible to all who require consultation 
services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.4 Sufficient space shall be provided for support personnel to perform their duties. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.5 The layout of the department and the type, amount, size, and placement of 
equipment shall make possible the efficient and sanitary preparation and 
distribution of food. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.6 Lavatories with wrist action blades, soap dispenser and disposable towel 
dispenser shall be located throughout the dietary department. 
<<<PAGE 358>>>
358  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.7 Dry or staple food items shall be stored in a ventilation room which is not subject 
to sewage or waste water backflow, or contamination by condensation, leakage, 
rodents or vermin. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.8 All perishable foods shall be refrigerated at the appropriate temperature and in an 
orderly and sanitary manner. Each refrigerator shall contain a thermometer in 
good working order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.9 Foods being displayed or transported shall be protected from contamination. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.10 Dishwashing procedures and techniques shall be developed and carried out in 
compliance with the state and local health codes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.11 All garbage and kitchen refuse which is not disposed of mechanically shall be 
kept in leak-proof non-absorbent containers with close fitting covers and be 
disposed of routinely in manner that will not permit transmission of disease, a 
nuisance, or a breeding place for flies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.12 All garbage containers are to be thoroughly cleaned inside and outside each time 
emptied. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.52.13 All dietary areas, equipment, walls, floors, etc., shall be kept maintained in good 
working condition and sanitary at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 53 DIETS 
Rule 40.53.1 There shall be a systematic record of diets, correlated when appropriate, with the 
medical records. 
1. The dietitian shall have available an up-to-date manual or regimens for all 
therapeutic diets, approved jointly by the dietitian and medical staff, which is 
available to dietary supervisory personnel. Diets serviced to patients shall be in 
compliance with these established diet principles:  
<<<PAGE 359>>>
359  
a. The diet manual shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by a 
qualified dietitian, and shall be dated to identify the time of the review.  
b. Revisions to the diet manual shall be approved by the facility's physician.  
c. The diet manual should be used to standardize the ordering of diets.  
d. The policies and procedures shall provide for dietetic counseling.  
e. The nutritional deficiencies of any diet in the manual shall be indicated.  
f. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of dietetic orders in the 
patient's record.  
g. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of all observations and 
information pertinent to dietetic treatment in the patient's record by the food 
service supervisor or dietitian.  
h. The policies and procedures shall require the use of standards for nutritional 
care in evaluating the nutritional adequacy of the patient's diet and in ordering 
diet supplements. The current Recommended Dietary Allowances of the Food 
and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the National Academy 
of Science is suggested as a guide in developing these standards. 
 i. The policies and procedures shall describe the methods for assuring that each 
patient on a special diet receives the prescribed diet regimen.  
j. The policies and procedures shall provide for altering diets or diet schedules as 
well as for discontinuing diets.  
k. Dietetic service personnel shall conduct periodic food acceptance studies 
among the patients and should encourage them to participate in menu planning.  
l. The results of food acceptance studies should be reflected in revised menus.  
m. All menus shall be approved by a qualified dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 54 FOOD SERVICE AND DINING 
Rule 40.54.1 Food shall be served in an appetizing and attractive manner, at planned and 
realistic mealtimes, and in a congenial and relaxed atmosphere. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.2 Dining areas should be attractive and maintained at appropriate temperatures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 360>>>
360  
Rule 40.54.3 The dietetic services shall be patient-oriented and should take into account the 
many factors that contribute to the wide variations in patient eating habits, 
including cultural, religious, and ethnic factors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.4 Snacks shall be available as appropriate to the nutritional needs of the patient and 
the needs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.5 The dietetic service shall be prepared to give extra food to individual patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.6 Appropriate food should be available for patients with special or limited dietary 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.7 There shall be adequate equipment provided for tray assembly and tray delivery. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.54.8 Facilities or arrangement shall be available family and friends to eat with patients 
when possible. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 55 RECREATION 
Rule 40.55.1 The facility shall provide or make arrangements for the provision of recreation 
services to all patients in accordance with their needs and interests and as 
appropriate within the scope of the facility's program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.2 The facility shall have a written plan that describes the organization of their 
recreation services or the arrangements made for the provision of recreation 
services. The recreation services shall have a well-organized plan for using 
community resources. The goals and objectives of the facility's recreation 
services shall be stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures for the recreation services 
which are made available to recreation services and other appropriate personnel. 
The policies and procedures shall be reviewed and revised at least annually. 
<<<PAGE 361>>>
361  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.4 Recreational activities shall be provided to all patients during the day, in the 
evening, and on weekends. The daily recreation program shall be planned to 
provide a consistent and well-structured yet flexible framework for daily living. 
Whenever possible, patients should participate in planning recreational services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.5 Recreation schedules shall be posted in places accessible to patients and staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.6 The recreation program shall be reviewed and revised according to the changing 
needs of the patients. 
1. When indicated, recreation services shall be incorporated in the patient's treatment 
plan. 
2. Recreation services that are included in a patient's treatment plan shall reflect an 
assessment of the patient's needs interests, life experiences, capacities, and 
deficiencies. Recreation services staff shall collaborate with other professional staff 
in delineating goals for patient's treatment, health maintenance, and vocational 
adjustments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.7 The patient's record shall contain progress notes that describe the patient's 
response to recreation services and other pertinent observations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.55.8 Vehicles used for transportation shall not be labeled in a manner that calls 
unnecessary attention to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 56 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES 
Rule 40.56.1 The recreation services shall have written procedures for ongoing review and 
revision of its goals, objectives, and role within the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.56.2 The recreation service shall maintain statistical and other records on the 
functioning and utilization. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 362>>>
362  
Subchapter 57 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Rule 40.57.1 The facility service shall maintain ongoing staff development programs. 
Recreation service staff shall participate in appropriate clinical and administrative 
committees and conferences.  Recreation services staff shall receive training and 
demonstrate competence in handling medical and psychiatric emergencies. The 
recreation service shall encourage extramural studies and evaluations of 
recreation services and extramural research in recreation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 58 FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND SANITATION 
Rule 40.58.1 Appropriate space, equipment, and facilities shall be provided to meet the needs 
of patients for recreation services. 
1. Facilities and equipment designated for recreation services shall be constructed or 
modified in such a manner as to provide, insofar as possible, pleasant and 
functional areas that are accessible to all patients regardless of their disabilities.  
2. Space for offices, storage, and supplies shall be adequate and accessible.  
3. When indicated, equipment and supplies that enable the activity to be brought to 
the patient should be used.  
4. Space, equipment and facilities utilized both inside and outside the facility shall 
meet federal, state, and local requirements for safety, fire prevention, health, and 
sanitation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 59 PHYSICAL AND OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY 
Rule 40.59.1 The facility shall provide, or arrange for, under written agreement, physical and 
occupational therapy services as needed by patients to improve and maintain 
functioning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.2 Qualified therapists, consultants, volunteers, assistants, or aides, are sufficient in 
number to provide comprehensive occupation and physical therapy services, as 
needed, to assure that appropriate treatment is rendered for each patient in 
accordance with stated goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.3 Services are provided only upon the written order of a licensed physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 363>>>
363  
Rule 40.59.4 The therapist must:  
1. Record regularly and evaluate periodically the treatment training progress.  
2. Use the treatment training progress as the basis for continuation or change in the 
program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.5 Treatment training programs shall be designed to: a. Preserve and improve 
abilities for independent function, such as range of motion, strength, tolerance, 
coordination, and activities of daily living. b. Prevent, insofar as possible, 
irreducible disabilities through means such as the use of orthotic and prosthetic 
appliances, assistive and adaptive devices, positioning, behavior adoptions, and 
sensory stimulation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.6 Evaluation results, treatment objectives, plans and procedures and progress notes 
shall be recorded in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.7 For effective and efficient physical and occupational therapy services, the facility 
shall provide sufficient space, equipment and supplies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.8 Physical and occupational therapists shall meet the qualifications of Subchapters 
13 through 16. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.59.9 Therapy assistants must work under the supervision of the qualified therapist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 60 EDUCATION 
Rule 40.60.1 The facility shall provide, or make arrangements for the provision of, education 
services to meet the needs of all patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.2 Special education services shall be provided for patients whose emotional 
disturbances make it difficult for them to learn. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 364>>>
364  
Rule 40.60.3 Education services shall provide opportunities for patients who have fallen 
behind because of their disorder, to correct deficiencies in their education. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.4 Facilities that operate their own education service shall have adequate staff and 
space to meet the educational needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.5 An education director and staff who meet state and/or local certification 
requirements for education and/or special education shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.6 Special education teachers shall be certified for individuals with emotional 
disabilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.7 An appropriate ratio of teachers to students shall be provided so teachers can give 
special attention to students or to groups of students who are at difference stages 
of treatment and education. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.8 The education service shall have space and materials commensurate with the 
scope of its activities, including an adequate number of classrooms. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.9 When indicated, patients shall participate in education programs in the 
community. Teachers in the community shall be given the information necessary 
to work effectively with the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.10 Clinicians shall periodically confer with teachers or principals on the progress 
of each patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.60.11 When appropriate, patients shall be encouraged to take part in extra curricular 
school activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 365>>>
365  
Rule 40.60.12 There shall be documentation in each patient's record of periodic evaluations of 
educational achievement in relation to development level, chronological age, sex, 
individuals with disabilities, medications, and psychotherapeutic needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 61 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION:  POLICIES AND 
PROCEDURES 
Rule 40.61.1 Patients shall receive counseling on their specific vocational needs, for example, 
their vocational strengths and weaknesses, the demands of their current and future 
jobs, the responsibilities of holding a job, and the problems related to vocational 
training, placement, and employment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.2 A facility may delegate vocational rehabilitation responsibilities to an outside 
vocational rehabilitation agency. However, the agency must assign an individual 
approved by the facility to serve as the facility's coordinator of vocational 
rehabilitation and agree to comply with the standards in this section. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.3 Facilities that have a vocational rehabilitation service shall have written policies 
and procedures to govern the operation of the service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.4 The vocational rehabilitation service shall assess the patients vocational needs 
with regard to the following:  
1. Current work skills and potential for improving skills or developing new ones;  
2. Educational background;  
3. Aptitudes, interests, and motivations for getting involved in various job-related 
 activities;  
4. Physical abilities;  
5. Skills and experiences in seeking jobs;  
6. Work habits related to tardiness, absenteeism, dependability, honesty, and relations 
with co-workers and supervisor;  
7. Personal grooming and appearance;  
8. Expectations regarding the personal, financial, and social benefits to be derived 
from working; and  
<<<PAGE 366>>>
366  
9. Amenability to vocational counseling. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.5 Vocational services shall be provided according to an individualized treatment 
plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.6 The criteria for determining a patient's job-readiness shall be stated in the patient's 
treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.7 A record shall be kept of vocational rehabilitation activities, including the date 
and a description of the activity, participants, and results. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.61.8 All work programs must conform to federal, state, and local rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 62 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION 
Rule 40.62.1 The facility's vocational rehabilitation service shall have a sufficient number of 
appropriately qualified staff and support personnel. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.62.2 A person or team shall be assigned responsibility for the implementation of 
vocational rehabilitation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.62.3 The facility shall have at least one qualified vocational rehabilitation counselor or 
qualified occupational therapist available who is responsible for the professional 
standards, coordination, and delivery of vocational rehabilitation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.62.4 All personnel providing vocational rehabilitation services shall have training, 
experience, and competence consistent with acceptable standards of their 
specialty field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.62.5 Enough qualified vocational rehabilitation counselors and support personnel shall 
be available to meet the needs of patients. 
<<<PAGE 367>>>
367  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 63 SPEECH, LANGUAGE, AND HEARING:  POLICIES AND 
PROCEDURES 
Rule 40.63.1 Speech, language, and hearing services shall be available, either within the 
facility or by written arrangement with another facility or a qualified clinician, to 
provide assessments of speech, language, or hearing when indicated, and to 
provide counseling, treatment, and rehabilitation when needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.63.2 Facilities that have a speech, language, and hearing service shall have written 
policies and procedures to govern the operation of the service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.63.3 The speech, language, and hearing service shall provide the following services:  
1. Speech and language screening of patients when deemed necessary by members of 
the treatment team, the family, or significant others;  
2. Comprehensive speech and language evaluation of patients when indicated by 
screening results;  
3. Comprehensive audiological assessment of patients when indicated;  
4. Procurement, maintenance, or replacement of hearing aids when specified by a 
qualified audiologist; and  
5. Rehabilitation programs, when appropriate, to establish the speech skills necessary 
for comprehensive and expression. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.63.4 Assessment and treatment results shall be reported accurately and systematically 
and in manner that accomplishes the following:  
1. Defines the problem;  
2. Provides a basis for formulating a plan that contains treatment objectives and 
procedures;  
3. Provides information of staff working with the patient; and  
4. Provides evaluations and summary reports for inclusion in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 368>>>
368  
Subchapter 64 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION 
Rule 40.64.1 The speech, language, and hearing service shall be administered and supervised 
by qualified speech-language and hearing clinicians. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.64.2 All staff with independent responsibilities shall have a Certificate of Clinical 
Competence or a Statement of Equivalence in either speech pathology or 
audiology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, or have 
documented equivalent training and experience; and shall meet current legal 
requirements of licensure or registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.64.3 Support personnel, such as speech pathology assistants and communication aides, 
shall be qualified by training and/or experience for the level of work they perform 
and shall be appropriately supervised by a staff speech-language pathologist or 
audiologist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 65 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES 
Rule 40.65.1 Equipment shall meet the standards of the American Board of Examiners in 
Speech Pathology and Audiology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing 
Association, including the standards concerning the location, calibration, and 
maintenance of equipment; or equipment shall meet equivalent standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 66 DENTAL:  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 40.66.1 The facility shall have a written plan that outlines the procedures used to assess 
and treat the dental health care needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.66.2 The written dental health care plan shall describe the following:  
1. Mechanisms for evaluating each patient's need for dental treatment; 
2. Provisions for emergency dental services;  
3. Policies on oral hygiene and preventive dentistry;  
4. Provisions for coordinating dental services with other services provided by the 
facility; and  
<<<PAGE 369>>>
369  
5. A mechanism for the referral of patients for services not provided by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.66.3 When a facility provides dental services, a written policy shall delineate the 
functions of the service and the specific services provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.66.4 Reports of all dental services provided shall be made a part of the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 67 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION 
Rule 40.67.1 A dental service provided by the facility shall be directed by a fully licensed 
dentist who is a member of the professional staff and qualified to assume 
management and administrative responsibility for the dental service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.67.2 A dental service provided by the facility shall have a sufficient number of 
adequately trained personnel to meet the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 68 FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND SANITATION 
Rule 40.68.1 A dental service provided by the facility shall have adequate space, equipment, 
instruments, and supplies to meet the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 69 REFERRALS 
Rule 40.69.1 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that facilitate the referrals 
of patients and the provision of consultation between the facility's program 
components and between the facility and other service providers in the 
community. The written policies and procedures shall describe the conditions 
under which referrals can be made and consultations provided. These conditions 
shall provide for the examinations, assessment, or consultations that are not 
within the professional domain or expertise of the staff; special treatment 
services; and assistance from providers who can contribute to the patient's well-
being. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.2 The written policies and procedures shall describe the methods by which 
continuity of care is assured for the patient. These methods shall include, but not 
<<<PAGE 370>>>
370  
be limited to, providing the facility, program component, or other service provider 
to which the patient is referred with the following:  
1. Background information on the referral;  
2. Information on the patient's treatment, for example, current treatment, diagnostic 
assessments, and special requirements;  
3. Treatment objectives desired;  
4. Suggestions for continued coordination between the referring and the receiving 
resource;  
5. Special clinical management requirements; and  
6. Information on how the patient can be returned to the referring facility or program 
component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.3 The facility shall ask the facility, program component, or other service provider 
to which the patient is referred to submit a follow-up report within a designated 
time period. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.4 The written policies and procedures shall describe the mechanism by which a 
patient may request a referral. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.5 The written policies and procedures shall describe the means by which the 
facility assists in the referral of individuals who are seeking services that the 
facility does not provide. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.6 The written policies and procedures shall be reviewed and approved annually by 
the director and appropriate administrative and professional staff members. The 
annual review and approval shall be documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.69.7 Each community service provider to which patients are referred shall express in 
writing its willingness to abide by federal and state standards concerning 
confidentiality of patient information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 371>>>
371  
Rule 40.69.8 The facility shall have a letter of agreement and/or contract with community 
service providers that it uses repeatedly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 70 EMERGENCY 
Rule 40.70.1 The facility shall have written procedures for taking care of emergencies. 
Emergency services shall be provided by the facility or through clearly defined 
arrangements with another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.70.2 When emergency services are provided by an outside facility, a written plan shall 
delineate the type of emergency services available and the arrangements for 
referring or transferring patients to another facility. The written plan shall be 
available to all professional staff and shall clearly specify the following:  
1. The staff of the facility who are available and authorized to provide necessary 
emergency evaluations;  
2. The staff of the facility who are authorized to arrange for patients to be referred or 
transferred to another facility when necessary;  
3. The arrangements the facility has made for exchanging records with the outside 
facility when it is necessary for the care of the patient;  
4. The location of the outside facility and the names of the appropriate personnel to 
contact;  
5. The method of communication between the two facilities;  
6. The arrangements the facility has made to assure that when a patient requiring 
emergency care is transferred to an non-psychiatric or substance abuse service or 
facility, he or she will receive further evaluation and/or treatment of his or her 
psychiatric or substance abuse problem, as needed;  
7. The arrangements the facility has made for transporting patients, when necessary, 
from the facility to the facility providing emergency services;  
8. The policy for referring patients needing continued care after emergency services 
back to the referring facility; and  
9. Policies concerning notification of the patient's family of emergencies and of 
arrangements that have been made for referring or transferring the patient to 
another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 372>>>
372  
Rule 40.70.3 When an emergency service is provided by the facility, the service shall be well 
organized, properly directed, and integrated with other services of the facility 
and shall comply with Part IV, Chapter 7, Section 701-705.6 of the Minimum 
Standards of Operations of Mississippi Hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 71 LIBRARY 
Rule 40.71.1 Library services shall be made available to meet the professional and technical 
needs of the facility's staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.71.2 Facilities that do not maintain a professional library shall have an arrangement 
with a nearby facility or institution to use its professional library. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.71.3 Current reference material, books, and basic health care journals shall be available 
in each facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.71.4 The library shall establish regular and convenient hours of service so that staff 
may have prompt access to current materials. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.71.5 When a facility operates its own library, the professional library service shall 
provide pertinent, current and useful medical, psychiatric, psychological, alcohol, 
drug, educational, and related materials. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.71.6 A facility providing extensive library services should utilize the services of a 
professional librarian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 72 LABORATORY/RADIOLOGY 
Rule 40.72.1 The facility shall have provisions for promptly obtaining required laboratory, x-
ray, and other diagnostic services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.72.2 If the facility provides its own laboratory and x-ray services, these shall meet the 
applicable standards established for hospital licensure. Refer to Subchapter 21, 
<<<PAGE 373>>>
373  
Subchapters 57-61 & Subchapters 70-73 of the Minimum Standards of Operation 
for Mississippi Hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.72.3 If the facility itself does not provide such services, arrangements shall be made for 
obtaining these services from a licensed and certified laboratory. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.72.4 All laboratory and x-ray services shall be provided only on the orders of the 
attending physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.72.5 The facility shall assist the patient, if necessary, in arranging for transportation to 
and from the source of service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.72.6 All signed and dated reports of laboratory, x-ray, and other diagnostic services 
shall be filed with the patient's medical record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 73 VOLUNTEER 
Rule 40.73.1 In facilities where volunteer services are utilized, the objectives and scope of the 
volunteer service shall be clearly stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.2 An appropriately qualified and experienced staff member shall be assigned to 
select and evaluate volunteers and to coordinate volunteer activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.3 The authority and responsibilities of the volunteer coordinator shall be clearly 
stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.4 The volunteer coordinator shall perform the following functions:  
1. Assist staff in determining the need for volunteer services and in developing 
assignments;  
2. Plan and implement the program for recruiting volunteers;  
<<<PAGE 374>>>
374  
3. Coordinate efforts to recruit, select, and train volunteers, and to place volunteers in 
appropriate services or units;  
4. Instruct staff on the proper, effective, and creative use of volunteers;  
5. Keep staff and the community informed about volunteer services and activities;  
6. Provide opportunities for volunteers to acquire the qualifications for certification 
when applicable; and  
7. Assign an appropriate staff member to provide ongoing supervision, in-service 
training, and evaluation of volunteers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.5 An orientation program shall be conducted to familiarize volunteers with the 
facility's goals and services and to provide appropriate clinical orientation 
regarding the facility's patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.6 The orientation program shall include explanations of at least the following:  
1. The importance of maintaining confidentiality and protecting patients' rights.  
2. The procedures for responding to unusual events and incidents; and  
3. The program's channels of communication and the distinctions between 
administrative and clinical authority and responsibility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.7 Volunteers shall be under the direct supervision of the staff of the service or unit 
utilizing their services, and shall receive general direction and guidance from the 
volunteer coordinator. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.8 The use of volunteers as members of treatment teams to supplement the total 
treatment program shall be done only in collaboration with appropriate 
professional staff members and after consideration of the patients' needs for 
continuity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.9 Supervisory professional staff shall be available to help volunteers establish the 
most effective relationship with patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 375>>>
375  
Rule 40.73.10 Procedures shall be established to assure that the observations of volunteers are 
reported to the professional staff members responsible for the patient. These 
observations may be recorded in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.11 Volunteers may be utilized to help meet patients' basic needs for social 
interaction, self-esteem, and self-fulfillment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.12 Volunteer activity records and reports shall contain information that can be used 
to evaluate the effectiveness of the volunteer services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.73.13 At least the following records shall be maintained by the volunteer service:  
1. A personnel record that includes the volunteer's application, record of assignments, 
and progress reports;  
2. A master assignment schedule for all volunteers, including times and units of 
assignment; and  
3. A current job description for each volunteer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 74 RESEARCH OPTIONAL 
Rule 40.74.1 When a facility or program conducts or participants in research with human 
subjects, policies shall be designed and written to assure that rigorous review is 
made of the merits of each research project and of the potential effects of the 
research procedures on the participants. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.2 An interdisciplinary research committee shall review all research projects 
utilizing human subjects. The committee shall be either a permanent standing 
committee or a committee convened on an as-needed basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.3 Members of the research review committee shall be qualified by training and 
experience to serve on the committee.  Individuals who have appropriate 
experience in the research areas being reviewed shall be included on the 
committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 376>>>
376  
Rule 40.74.4 A majority of the committee member should be individuals who are not directly 
associated with the research project under consideration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.5 Some committee members should be individuals who are not formally associated 
with the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.6 Prior to the authorization and initiation of each research project, the research 
committee shall conduct a detailed review of the project.  This review shall 
include the following:  
1. The adequacy of the research design;  
2. The qualifications of the individuals responsible for coordinating the project;  
3. The benefits of the research in general;  
4. The benefits and risks to the participants;  
5. The benefits to the facility;  
6. The possible disruptive effects of the project on facility operations;  
7. The compliance of the research design with accepted ethical standards;  
8. The process to be used to obtain informed consent from participants; and 
9. The procedures for dealing with any.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.7 This initial review shall form the basis for a written report that shall be submitted 
by the committee to the Chief Executive Officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.8 All individuals asked to participate in a research project shall be given the 
following information before being asked to give their consent:  
1. A description of the benefits to be expected;  
2. A description of the potential discomforts and risks;  
3. A description of alternative services that might prove equally advantageous to 
them; and  
<<<PAGE 377>>>
377  
4. A full explanation of the procedures to be followed, especially those that are 
experimental in nature. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.9 If the investigator does not wish to fully disclose the purpose, nature, expected 
outcome, and implications of the research to the participants before it begins, the 
investigator shall clearly and rigorously justify to the research review committee 
that such disclosure is inadvisable and that failure to give full disclosure is not 
detrimental to the participants. Under such conditions, disclosure may be deferred 
until the research project is completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.10 All research project participants shall sign a consent form that indicates their 
willingness to participate in the project. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.11 All consent forms, except as provided in Rule 40.74.9 shall address all of the 
information specified in Rule 40.74.8 and shall indicate the name of the person 
who supplied the participant with the information and the date the form was 
signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.12 The informed consent document shall address the participant's right to privacy 
and confidentiality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.13 Neither the consent form nor any written or oral agreement entered into by the 
participant shall include any language that releases the facility, its agents, or those 
responsible for conducting the research from liability for negligence. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.14 All prospective participants over the age of 12 and all parents or guardians of 
participants under the age of 18 shall sign a written consent form that indicates 
willingness to participate in the project. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.15 The consent form shall address all of the information specified in Standard 
2914.10 and shall indicate the name of the individual who supplied the participant 
with the information and the date the consent form was signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 378>>>
378  
Rule 40.74.16 Prospective participants under the age of 18, and all prospective participants who 
are legally or functionally incompetent to provide informed consent, shall 
participate only when and if consent has been given by a person legally 
empowered to consent, shall participate only when and if consent has been given 
by a person legally empowered to consent, and such consent has been reviewed 
by an independent advocacy group, if available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.17 Such legal guardian and/or advocate shall receive the same information as 
required in Rule 40.74.8 and shall sign the consent form. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.18 A patient's refusal to participate in a research project shall not be a cause for 
denying or altering the provision of indicated services to that patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.19 Participants shall be allowed to withdraw consent and discontinue participation in 
a research project at any time without affecting their status in the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.20 Privacy and confidentiality should be strictly maintained at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.21 Upon completion of the research procedures, the principal investigator shall 
attempt to remove any confusion, misinformation, stress, physical discomfort, or 
other harmful consequences that may have arisen with respect to the participants 
as a result of the procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.22 Investigators and other directly involved in research shall, both in obtaining 
consent and in conducting research, adhere to the ethical standards of their 
respective professions concerning the conduct of research and should be guided 
by the regulations of the US Department of Health and Human Services and other 
federal, state, and local statues and regulations concerning the protection of 
human subjects. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.23 Upon completion of the research, the principal investigator, whether a member 
of the facility's staff or an outside researcher, shall be responsible for 
communicating the purpose, nature, outcome, and possible practical or 
<<<PAGE 379>>>
379  
theoretical implications of the research to the staff of the program in a manner 
which they can understand. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 40.74.24 Reports of all research projects shall be submitted to the Chief Executive Officer 
and the research committee and shall be maintained by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
CHAPTER 41 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR MISSISSIPPI 
HOSPITALS Subchapter 1 AUTHORITY AND LICENSE 
Rule 41.1.1.  Adoption of  Regulations and Minimum Standards. By virtue  of authority 
vested in it by the Mississippi Code Annotated Sections 41-9-1 through 41-9-
35, or as otherwise amended,  the Mississippi Department of Health does 
hereby adopt and promulgate the following regulations and standards for 
hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 2 DEFINITIONS 
Rule 41.2.1. Hospital. “Hospital” means a place devoted primarily to the maintenance and 
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and care of individuals 
suffering from physical or mental infirmity, illness, disease, injury or 
deformity, or a place devoted primarily to providing obstetrical or other 
medical, surgical, or nursing care of individuals, whether any such place be 
organized or operated for profit and whether any such place be publicly or 
privately owned. The term “hospital” does not include convalescent or 
boarding homes, children’s homes, homes for the aged or other like 
establishments where room and board only are provided, nor does it include 
offices or clinics where patients are not regularly kept as bed patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.2. Person. “Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, 
company, association or joint stock association, and the legal successor 
thereof. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.3. Governmental Unit. “Governmental Unit” means the state, or any 
county, municipality or other political subdivision or any department, 
division, board, or other agency of any of the foregoing, excluding all 
federal establishments. 
<<<PAGE 380>>>
380  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.4. Licensing Agency. “Licensing agency” means the Mississippi 
Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.5. License. No person or governmental unit shall establish, conduct, or 
maintain a hospital in this state without a license. 
Provisional License. Within its discretion, the Mississippi State Department of 
Health may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of non-
compliance with these regulations exists in one or more particulars. A provisional 
license shall be issued only if the Department of Health is satisfied that 
preparations are being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health 
and safety of patients will not be endangered. 
The license issued under this condition shall be valid until the issuance of a 
regular license but shall not exceed five months following date of issuance 
whichever may be sooner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.6. Application for License. An application for a license shall be made to the 
licensing agency upon forms provided by the licensing agency and shall 
contain such information as the licensing agency reasonably requires. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.7. Licensure Fees. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless 
suspended or revoked, shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the           
Board, made payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health,   
either by business check, money order, or electronic means. Renewal        
of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are non-refundable. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.8. User Fee. A “user fee” in an amount set by the Board, shall be assessed     
by the licensing agency for the purpose of the required reviewing and 
inspections of the proposal of any hospital in which there are additions, 
renovations, modernizations, expansion, alterations, conversions, 
modifications or replacement of the entire facility involved in the           
proposal. This fee includes the reviewing of architectural plans in all 
required steps. Fees are to be made payable to the Mississippi State 
Department of Health, and paid by either a business check, money              
order, or electronic means. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 381>>>
381  
Rule 41.2.9. Renewal of License. A license, unless suspended or revoked, shall be 
renewable annually, upon filing by the licensee, and approval by the 
licensing agency of an annual report upon such uniform dates and 
containing such information as the licensing agency requires and upon 
paying the annual fee for such license. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.10. Issuance of License. Each license shall be issued only for the          
premises and persons or governmental units names in the application        
and shall not be transferable or assignable except with the written 
approval of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.2.11. Posting of License. Licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place        
on the licensed premises. 
Rule 41.2.12. Trauma Registry. Collection of data on patients who receive hospital care         
for certain types of injuries. Such data are primarily designed to ensure   
quality of trauma care and outcomes in individual institutions and trauma 
systems but have the secondary purpose of providing useful data for the 
surveillance of injury, morbidity, and mortality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 3 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE. 
Rule 41.3.1. The licensing agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing to the         
applicant or licensee,  is authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license         
in any case in which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to 
comply with the requirements established in these regulations and   
standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 4 ADMINISTRATION: OWNERSHIP 
Rule 41.4.1. There shall be full disclosure of hospital ownership and control. In      
its Initial Application for Hospital License the hospital shall    
disclose: 
1. The ownership of the hospital, including the names and 
addresses of the following: all stockholders, if the owner is a 
corporation; the partners, if the owner is a partnership; or the 
owner(s), if individually owned. 
 
<<<PAGE 382>>>
382  
2. The name, address, and capacity of each officer and each 
member of the governing body, as well as the individual(s) 
directly responsible for the operation of the hospital. 
3. Owner's proof of financial ability for continuous operation. 
4. The name and address of the resident agent for  service of process 
within the State of Mississippi if the owner shall not reside or be 
domiciled in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.4.2.  Annually in its Application for Renewal of Hospital License the        
hospital shall report: The name and address of the owner. 
1. The name and address of the operator. 
2. The name, address and capacity of each officer and each 
member of the governing body, as well as the individual(s) 
responsible for the operation of the hospital. 
Rule 41.4.3. When any changes shall be made in the constituency of the governing 
body, the officers, or the individual(s) directly responsible for the         
operation of the hospital, the hospital shall notify the licensing agency        
in writing within 15 days of such changes and shall also furnish to it a 
certified copy of that portion of the minutes of the governing body dealing 
with such changes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.4.4. When change of ownership of a hospital is contemplated, the hospital            
shall notify the licensing agency in writing at least 30 days prior to the proposed date of 
change of ownership, giving the name and address of the proposed new owner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.4.5. The hospital shall notify the licensing agency in writing within 24 hours 
after any change of ownership and shall surrender its license there with. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 5 GOVERNING AUTHORITY 
Rule 41.5.1. The hospital shall have an organized governing body, or designated 
person(s) so functioning, that has overall responsibility for the  
 
 
<<<PAGE 383>>>
383  
 conduct of the hospital in a manner consistent with the objective of 
making available high quality patient care. The governing body shall 
be the supreme authority in the hospital, responsible for the 
management of the hospital and appointment of the medical staff. The 
governing body shall adopt bylaws in accordance with legal 
requirements and with its community responsibility, identifying the 
purposes of the hospital and the means of fulfilling them, and shall at 
least: 
1. Be in writing available to all members of the governing body. 
2. Contain the name of the governing body. 
3. State the manner in which the members of the governing body, the 
officers and the administrative personnel are selected, the terms 
for which they are elected or appointed, and their duties and 
responsibilities. 
4. Specify to whom authority for operation and maintenance of the 
hospital, including evaluation of hospital practices, may be 
delegated; and the methods established by the governing body 
for holding such individuals responsible. 
5. Provide a schedule of meetings of the governing body at 
sufficiently frequent intervals to permit it an evaluation of the 
performance of the hospital as an institution and to carry on 
necessary planning for the proper developments and growth of 
the hospital, with written minutes to be kept of all such 
meetings. 
6. Provide the method of appointment, re-appointment, and 
removal of members of the medical staff. 
7. Provide mechanisms for the formal approval of the 
organization, bylaws, and rules and regulations of the medical 
staff and its department in the hospital. 
Facility Discontinuation/Closure of Service: 
1. Discontinuation of Service:  Facilities proposing the 
closure/discontinuation of patient medical care services that are listed on 
the facility’s hospital licensure application and/or a Certificate of Need 
(CON) regulated service, shall notify the Department in writing a 
minimum of 30 days prior to closure and include the effective closure 
date. The notification to the Department shall include, but is not limited 
to: 
<<<PAGE 384>>>
384  
A. The type of services that will no longer be provided due to closure; 
B. The reason for closure; 
C. The location where the patients have been/will be transferred; 
D. The plan for storage of patient medical records; and 
E. Plan for notifying the public. 
2. Closure:  Facilities proposing the permanent closure of a hospital shall 
notify the Department in writing at of the intent to close a minimum of 30 
days in advance of the closure date.  The notice of closure shall include, 
but is not limited to: 
A. Effective date of permanent closure; 
B. The number of beds eliminated; 
C. Summary of services being eliminated; 
D. A description of the nearest available comparable services in the 
community; 
E. The Plan for the maintenance and retention of the patient medical 
records; and 
F. On the date of closure, the license shall be returned to Department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 6 MANAGEMENT 
Rule 41.6.1. The governing body shall appoint an administrator whose, authority,       
and duties shall be defined in a written statement adopted by the 
governing body, the medical staff and all other branches and        
departments of the hospital. An administrator appointed on or after 
February 14, 2005, shall have at least a bachelor’s degree and one (1) 
year experience in a health-related field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.6.2. The administrator shall be vested with sufficient authority to            
adequately perform all of the duties and responsibilities of his        
position, both written and implied. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 385>>>
385  
Rule 41.6.3. The governing body, through the administrator, shall provide appropriate 
physical resources and personnel required to meet the needs of the        
patients, and shall participate in planning to meet the health needs of the 
community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.6.4. The governing body, through its administrator, shall take all          
reasonable steps to comply with all applicable federal, state, and local 
laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.6.5. The governing body, through its administrator, shall provide for the 
control and use of the physical and financial resources of the hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.6.6. The governing body shall delegate to the medical staff the authority to 
evaluate the professional competence of staff members and applicants for 
medical staff membership and/or clinical privileges. It shall hold the 
medical staff responsible for making recommendations to the           
governing body concerning initial staff appointments, re-        
appointments, removals and/or assignment or curtailment of clinical 
privileges. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.6.7. The governing body shall have the authority and responsibility for the 
appointment, reappointment, and removal of the members of the medical 
staff and other practitioners who have been granted clinical privileges. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.8.  Appointment, reappointment, and removal of the members of the          
medical staff and  other practitioners with clinical privileges shall be         
based upon well-defined written criteria set forth in the bylaws. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.9. The governing body shall utilize the advice of the medical staff in 
granting and defining the scope of clinical privileges to individual 
physicians, dentists and other practitioners requesting clinical           
privileges. If the medical staff does not include a physician or          
<<<PAGE 386>>>
386  
 practitioner of the same specialty, the medical staff shall consult with        
the appropriate licensure boards regarding scope of practice before       
making recommendations to the governing body regarding clinical 
privileges. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.10. No applicant shall be denied medical staff privileges in any publicly 
owned hospital on the basis of any criteria lacking professional 
justification. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.11. A mechanism shall be established in the bylaws for review by a joint 
committee when the governing body disagrees with the recommendations 
of the medical staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.12. All physicians, dentists and other practitioners applying for medical staff 
membership and/or clinical privileges must sign an agreement to abide by 
the medical staff by-laws and rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.13. The governing body shall inform applicants for medical staff membership 
and/or clinical privileges of the disposition of their application in a 
reasonable time. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.14.  The medical staff bylaws and rules and regulations shall be subject to 
governing body  approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.           
These shall include an effective  formal means for  the medical staff  to 
participate in the development of hospital policy relative to patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
 
<<<PAGE 387>>>
387  
Rule 41.6.15. The governing body shall require that the medical staff establish controls           
that are designed to insure the achievement and maintenance of high        
standards of professional ethical practices, and shall: 
 
1. Establish policies that ensure that only members of the medical 
staff dental staff or other practitioners designated by the governing 
body admit patients to the hospital. 
 
2. Ensure that a physician member of the medical staff is 
responsible for the care of each patient with respect to any 
medical or psychiatric problem that is present on admission or 
develops during hospitalization and is not specifically within the 
scope of practice of other practitioners with clinical privileges as 
defined by State law. 
 
3. Each individual hospital in the state shall decide by its 
"credentialing committee", or by whatever name it uses for the 
functions of credentialing, whether or not it chooses to abide by 
the amendments as set out in Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4 hereof, as 
pertaining to dental staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.16. If it shall be the policy of the hospital for physicians rendering 
consecutive services under contract with the hospital to bill hospital 
patients separately for their services, all hospital patients shall be  
advised, upon entering or prior to leaving the hospital, that they may 
expect a separate and additional bill for any such services as may        
have been rendered them. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.17. Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
1. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, employee shall mean any individual 
employed by a covered entity. The term employee”, also includes 
any individual who by contract with the covered entity provides 
direct patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or in 
treatment rooms. 
<<<PAGE 388>>>
388  
 
The term employee does not include healthcare 
professional/technical students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, 
performing clinical training in a licensed entity under contracts 
between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not include 
students at high schools who observe the treatment and care of 
patients in a licensed entity as part of the requirements of an allied 
health course taught in the school if: 
 
A. The student is under the supervision of a licensed 
healthcare provider; and 
B. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the 
student’s school stating that he or she has not been 
convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a 
felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any 
sex offenses listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, 
arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, 
aggravated assault, or felonious abuse and/or battery of a 
vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea was 
reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the 
conviction or plea. 
C. Further, applicants and employees of the University of 
Mississippi Medical Center for whom criminal history 
record checks and fingerprinting are obtained in 
accordance with Section 37-115-41 are exempt from 
application of the term employee under Section 43-11-
13. 
 
2. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record 
checks, “covered entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare 
professional staffing agency. 
 
3. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record 
checks, the term “licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing 
home, personal care home, home health agency or hospice. 
 
4. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic 
Program. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
“health care professional/vocational 
technical academic program” means an academic program in          
<<<PAGE 389>>>
389  
medicine, nursing, dentistry, occupational therapy, physical therapy, 
social services, speech therapy, or other allied-health professional 
whose purpose is to prepare professionals to render patient care 
services. 
 
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student. For 
purposes of criminal history record checks, the term means a 
student enrolled in a healthcare professional/vocational technical 
academic program. 
 
6. Direct Patient Care or Services. For purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” 
means direct hands- on medical patient care and services provided 
by an individual in a patient, resident or client’s room treatment 
room or recovery room. Individuals providing direct patient care 
may be directly employed by the facility or provides patient care on 
a contractual basis. 
7. Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary 
action” means any action taken against an employee for abuse or 
neglect of a patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.6.18. Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
1. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
covered entity shall require to be performed a disciplinary check 
with the professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee 
to determine if any disciplinary action has been taken against the 
employee by the agency, and a criminal history record check on: 
 
A. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct 
patient care or services; and 
 
B. Any individual seeking new employment with a covered 
entity whose initial criminal history record check is over 
two years old. 
 
<<<PAGE 390>>>
390  
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee         
hired on or after July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct 
patient care until the results of the criminal history record check 
revealed no disqualifying record or the employee has been granted  
a waiver. Provided the covered entity has documented evidence of 
submission of fingerprints for the background check, any person 
may be employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary 
basis pending the results of the criminal history record check but 
any employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person 
shall be voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record 
check, and no waiver is granted. 
 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony 
conviction; a guilty plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a 
felony for one (1) or more of the following crimes which has not 
been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been 
granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be 
employed at the licensed facility: 
 
A. possession or sale of drugs 
 
B. murder 
 
C. manslaughter 
 
D. armed robbery 
 
E. rape 
 
F. sexual battery 
G. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 1972 
 
H. child abuse 
 
I. arson 
 
J. grand larceny 
<<<PAGE 391>>>
391  
 
K. burglary 
 
L. gratification of lust 
 
M. aggravated assault 
 
N. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
 
4. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary 
status, if any, with the employee’s professional licensing agency 
as applicable, and evidence of submission of the employee’s 
fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on file and 
maintained by the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment. The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of 
verification of the employee’s disciplinary status from any 
applicable professional licensing agency and of submission and/or 
completion of the criminal record check, the signed affidavit, if 
applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment. 
 
5. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
licensing agency shall require every employee of a covered 
entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, to sign an affidavit 
stating that he or she does not have a criminal history as 
outlined in paragraph (c) above. 
 
6. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered 
entity hired before July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide 
direct patient care unless the employee has signed an affidavit as 
required by this section. The covered entity shall place the 
affidavit in the employee’s personnel file as proof of compliance 
with this section. 
 
7. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is 
later determined that the person actually had been convicted of or 
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any of the offenses listed 
herein, and the conviction or pleas has not been reversed on 
appeal or a pardon has not been granted for the conviction or plea, 
the person is guilty of perjury as set out in Section 43-11-13, 
<<<PAGE 392>>>
392  
Mississippi Code of 1972. The covered entity shall immediately 
institute termination proceedings against the employee pursuant to 
the facility’s policies and procedures. 
8. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable 
to sign the affidavit required by paragraph (g) of this subsection or 
any employee applicant aggrieved by the employment decision 
under this subsection to appear before the covered entity’s hiring 
officer, or his or her designee, to show mitigating circumstances that 
may exist and allow the employee or employee applicant to be 
employed at the covered entity. The covered entity, upon report and 
recommendation of the hiring officer, may grant waivers for those 
mitigating circumstances, which shall include, but not be limited to: 
(1) age at which the crime was committed; (2) circumstances 
surrounding the crime; (3) length of time since the conviction and 
criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; (5) current 
employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to 
the health or safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
9. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity 
submitting the fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty 
Dollars ($50.00). 
10. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history 
record check reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered 
entity shall, within two (2) weeks of the notification of no 
disqualifying event, provide the employee applicant with a 
notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered entity, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the 
employee applicant’s suitability for employment based on his or 
her criminal history record check. An employee applicant may 
use that letter for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the 
Mississippi Department of Health without the necessity of an 
additional criminal record check. Any covered entity presented 
with the letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee 
applicant’s criminal background and is not required for a period 
of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct or have 
conducted a criminal history check as required in this 
subsection. 
11. For individuals contacted through a third party who provide 
direct patient care  as defined herein, the covered entity shall 
require proof of a criminal history record check. 
12. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
<<<PAGE 393>>>
393  
licensing agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officer, 
employees, attorneys, and representatives, shall be presumed to 
be acting in good faith for any employment decision or action 
taken under this section. The presumption of good faith may be 
overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil action. 
No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys, and representatives shall be held liable in 
any employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of 
discrimination is made regarding an employment decision 
authorized under this section. 
 
Source: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-13 
 
Subchapter 7 THE MEDICAL STAFF 
 
Rule 41.7.1. The hospital shall have an organized medical staff that has the overall 
responsibility for the quality of all medical care provided to patients, and 
for the ethical conduct and professional practices of its members as well as 
for accounting therefore to the governing body. Each member of the 
medical staff shall be qualified for staff membership and for the exercise 
of the clinical privileges granted to him. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.2. The medical staff shall be limited to individuals who are licensed to 
practice medicine, osteopathy, or dentistry in the State of Mississippi, 
and such other practitioners as determined by the governing body. 
Such members must be appropriately licensed or certified and shall be 
professionally and ethically qualified for the positions to which they 
are appointed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.3. Clinical privileges granted to dentists shall be based on their training, 
experience, demonstrated competence and judgment. 
 
1. The scope and extent of surgical procedures that each dentist 
may perform must be specifically defined and recommended in 
the same manner as surgical privileges for physicians. 
<<<PAGE 394>>>
394  
2. Surgical procedures performed by dentists shall be under the 
overall supervision of the Chief of Surgery. In hospitals where a 
Chief of Surgery is not designated, they shall be under the 
overall supervision of a competent surgeon approved by the 
Chief of Staff or president of the medical staff. 
3. All dental patients must receive the same basis medical appraisal by 
a physician as patients admitted for other services except patients 
admitted by a qualified oral surgeon. An oral surgeon who admits a 
patient without medical problems may complete an admission 
history and a physical examination and assess the medical risks of 
the procedure to the patient if qualified to do so. Criteria to be used 
in identifying such a qualified oral surgeon shall include, but shall 
not necessarily be limited to, the following: successful completion 
of a postgraduate program in oral surgery accredited by a nationally 
recognized accrediting body approved by the United States Office 
of Education; and, as determined by the medical staff, evidence that 
the oral surgeon who admitted the patient is currently competent to 
conduct a complete history and physical examination to determine 
the patient's ability to undergo the oral surgical procedure the oral 
surgeon proposes to perform. 
 
4. Patients with medical problems admitted to the hospital by 
qualified oral surgeons and patients admitted for dental care by 
individuals who are not qualified oral surgeons shall receive the 
same basic medical appraisal as 
patients admitted for other services. This includes having a 
physician who either  is a member of the medical staff or is 
approved by the medical staff perform an admission history, a 
physical examination, and an evaluation of the overall medical 
risk and record the findings in the medical record. The 
responsible dentist shall take into account their commendations 
of this consultation in the overall assessment of the specific 
procedure proposed  and the effect of the procedure on the 
patient. When significant medical abnormality is present, the 
final decision must be a joint responsibility of the dentist and the 
medical consultant. The dentist shall be responsible for that part 
of the history and physical examination related to dentistry. A 
physician member of the medical staff shall be responsible for the 
care of any medical problem that may be present on admission 
or that may arise during hospitalization of dental patients. 
 
5. A physician member of the medical staff must be responsible for the 
care of any medical problem that may be present or that may arise 
during the hospitalization of dental patients. 
<<<PAGE 395>>>
395  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.4. All clinical privileges shall be based on training, experience, 
demonstrated competence, and judgment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.5. The medical staff shall be organized to accomplish its required functions; it 
shall provide for selection or appointment of its officers, executive 
committee, department head or service chiefs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.6. The medical staff must provide a framework in which the duties, functions, 
and responsibilities of the medical staff can be carried out. The complexity 
of the organization will depend on the size of the hospital and the scope of 
the activities of the medical staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.7. There shall be such officers of the medical staff as to provide effective 
governing of the medical staff and to provide effective medical care. There 
should be at least a president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer of the 
medical staff, or other similar titles. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.8. The medical staff shall participate in the maintenance of high 
professional standards by representation on committees concerned 
with patient care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.7.9. The medical staff should participate in continuous study and evaluation of 
factors 
relating to patient care in the hospital's internal environment. This 
<<<PAGE 396>>>
396  
should include participation in the development of hospital policies and 
procedures in-so-far as they affect patient care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.10. The development and surveillance of pharmacy and therapeutic practices in 
relation to drug utilization must be performed by the medical staff in 
cooperation with the pharmacist. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.11. The medical staff shall see that there is adequate documentation of medical 
events by a review of discharged patients that shall insure those medical 
records meet the required standards of completeness, clinical pertinence, and 
promptness or completion of following discharge. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.12. The medical staff shall actively participate in the study of hospital-          
associated infections, and infection potentials, and must promote a         
preventive and corrective program designed to minimize their hazards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.13. The medical staff  and the hospital’s administration must  evaluate their   
ability to manage  internal and  external disasters and other emergency 
situations. Medical staff responsibilities shall be clearly outlined. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.14. There shall be regular medical staff meetings to review the clinical          
work of members and to complete medical staff administrative            
duties. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 397>>>
397  
Rule 41.7.15. The medical staff shall provide a continuing program of professional       
education or give evidence of participation in such a program. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.16. The medical staff shall develop and adopt bylaws and rules and regulations to 
establish a framework for self-government and a means of accountability to the 
governing body, such bylaws and rules and regulations to be approved by the 
governing body. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.7.17. The medical staff bylaws and rules and regulations, as a minimum, shall: 
1. Contain the name of the organization. 
2. Delineate the organizational structure of the medical staff. 
3. Specify the qualifications and procedures for admission to and 
retention of staff membership, including the delineation, 
assignment, reduction, and withdrawal of clinical privileges. 
4. Specify the method of reviewing the qualifications of staff members. 
 
5. Provide an appeal mechanism relative to medical staff 
recommendations for denial, curtailment, suspension, or 
revocation of clinical privileges in any hospital having an open 
staff. This mechanism shall provide for review of decisions 
including the right to be heard at each step of the process when 
requested by the practitioner. 
 
6. Delineate clinical privileges of non-physician practitioners, as 
well as responsibilities of the physician members of the medical 
staff in relation to non- physician practitioners. A non-physician 
practitioner is a health professional licensed or otherwise 
authorized by the state to provide a range of independent or 
interdependent health services. Such providers include but are not 
limited to chiropractors, licensed professional counselors, 
licensed social workers, nurse practitioners/physician assistants 
(including nurse anesthetists), psychologists, podiatrists, and 
optometrists. 
 
7. Require a pledge that each practitioner will conduct his 
<<<PAGE 398>>>
398  
practice in accordance with high ethical traditions and 
will refrain from: 
 
A. Rebating a portion of a fee or receiving other 
inducements in exchange for a patient referral. 
 
B. Deceiving a patient as to the identity of an operating 
surgeon or any other medical practitioner providing 
services. 
 
C. Delegating the responsibility of hospitalized patients 
to another medical practitioner who is not qualified 
to undertake this responsibility. 
 
8. Provide for methods of selection of officers and clinical department 
or service chairmen. 
 
9. Outline the responsibilities of the medical staff officers and clinical 
department or service chairmen. 
 
10. Specify composition and functions of standing committees or 
standing committee functions as required by the complexity 
of the hospital. 
 
11. Establish requirements regarding the frequency of and attendance at general 
and departmental meetings of the medical staff. 
 
12. Require that the evaluation of the significance of medical 
histories, the authentication of medical histories, and the 
performance and recording of physical examinations and 
prescribing of treatment be carried out by those with 
appropriate licenses and clinical privileges within their sphere 
of authorization. 
 
13. Establish requirements regarding the completion of medical records. 
 
14. Provide for a mechanism by which the medical staff consults with and 
reports to the governing body. 
<<<PAGE 399>>>
399  
 
15. Adopt rules and regulations that contain specific statements covering 
procedures that foster optimal achievable patient care, including the 
care provided in the emergency service area. 
 
16. Provide that each practitioner shall on application for clinical 
privileges sign an agreement to abide by the current medical staff 
bylaws and rules and regulations and the hospital bylaws. 
 
17. Provide for records of attendance and minutes that adequately 
reflect the transactions, conclusions, and recommendations of 
the medical staff. 
 
18. Require and include procedures for evaluation of medical care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 8 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION ELEMENTS: PHYSICAL PLANT 
 
Rule 41.8.1.  General. Every institution subject  to these Minimum Standards shall be 
housed in a safe building which contains all the facilities required to render 
the services contemplated in the application for license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.8.2. Codes. The term “safe” as used in Rule 41.8.1 hereof shall be          
interpreted in the light of compliance with the requirements of the codes 
recognized by this agency on date of construction which are                
incorporated by reference as a part of these Minimum Standards;             
included are the Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection 
Association, American National Standards Institute, Standards Number          
A-17.1, and A-17.3, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, the    
American Institute of Architects (AIA), Guidelines for Design and 
Construction of Hospital and Health Care Facilities, and references 
incorporated as body of all afore mentioned standards. 
 
<<<PAGE 400>>>
400  
1. Life Safety Code compliance relative to construction date: 
 
A. Buildings constructed after February 14, 2005, shall 
comply with the edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 
101) recognized by this 
agency on the date of construction. 
B. Building constructed prior to February 14, 2005, shall 
comply with existing chapter of the Life Safety Code 
recognized by this agency. 
 
2. For minimum standards governing Heating, Ventilation, and 
Air Conditioning (HVAC), area design, space allocation, 
parking requirements, and other considerations not specifically 
addressed by local authority or standards referenced herein, 
compliance with the AIA guidelines will be deemed acceptable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 9 SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Rule 41.9.1. Construction shall not be started for any institution subject to these 
standards (whether new or remodeling or additions to an existing         
licensed hospital) until the plans and specifications for such construction            
or remodeling have been submitted to the Licensing Agency in writing           
and its approval of the changes given in writing. 
 
1. Exception: Foundation changes made necessary by  unanticipated 
conditions, or any conditions which present a hazard to life or property 
if not immediately corrected. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.2. Plans and specifications for any substantial hospital construction or 
remodeling should be prepared by competent architects and engineers 
licensed to practice in the state and who assume responsibility for 
supervising the construction. The following plans shall be submitted 
to the Licensing Agency for review: 
 
1. Preliminary Plans - To include schematics of buildings, plot plans 
showing size and shape of entire site, existing structures, if any, 
streets and location and characteristics of all needed utilities, floor 
plans of every floor dimensioned and with proposed use of each 
<<<PAGE 401>>>
401  
room or area shown. If for additions or remodeling, provide plan or 
of existing building showing all proposed alterations, outline 
specifications to include a general description of the construction, 
type of finishes, and type of heating, ventilating, plumbing, and 
electrical systems proposed. 
 
2. Final Working Drawings and Specifications - Complete and in 
sufficient detail to be the basis for the award of construction 
contracts. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.3. All plans submitted for review must be accompanied in their first 
submission by an order of the governing board indicating the type and 
scope of license to be applied for or a Certificate of Need. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.4. Plans receiving approval of the Licensing Agency upon which  
construction has not begun within six (6) months following such        
approval must be resubmitted for approval. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.5. In all new facilities, plans must be submitted to all regulatory         
agencies, such as the County Health Department, etc., for approval            
prior to starting construction. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.6. Upon completion of construction an inspection shall be made by the 
Licensing Agency and approval given prior to occupying the building or 
any part thereof. The state and county health departments shall have 
access to the job site during regular business hours and shall conduct 
construction progress inspections as deemed necessary by the agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.7. Environment. All hospitals shall be so located that they are reasonably 
free from undue noises, smoke, dust, or foul odors, and should not be 
located adjacent to railroads, freight yards, schools, children's 
playgrounds, airports, industrial plants or disposal plants. The proposed 
site for new hospitals shall be approved by the department. No new 
<<<PAGE 402>>>
402  
facilities shall be located nearer than 1000 ft. to a cross- country 
petroleum or gas pipeline. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.8. Zoning Restrictions. The locations of an institution shall comply with      
all local zoning ordinances. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.9. Access. Institutions located in rural areas must be served by good       
roads which can be kept passable at all times. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.9.10. Elevators. One power driven elevator is required in all hospitals having 
patient rooms, operating suite, or delivery suite above the first floor. 
Two or more elevators are required if 60 or more patients are housed 
above the ground floor. Minimum cab dimensions required for elevators 
transporting patients is 76" x 50" inside clear measurements: hatchway 
and cab doors 3'8" wide, minimum. 
Elevators are subject to the requirements of referenced standard listed 
in paragraph 602, Codes, of this regulation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 10 FIRE REPORTING AND PROTECTION 
 
Rule 41.10.1. Duty to report all fires, explosions, natural disasters, avoidable deaths or 
avoidable serious or life-threatening injuries to patients shall be 
reported by telephone to the department by the next working day after 
the occurrence. The licensing agency will provide the appropriate forms 
to the facility which shall be completed and returned within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of the occurrence. All reports shall be complete, 
thorough, and shall record at a minimum the casual factors, date, time of 
occurrence, and exact location of occurrence whether inside or outside 
of the facility. Attached thereto shall be all police, fire, and/or other 
official reports. There must be a telephone in the building to summon 
help in case of fire. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.10.2. All new construction or renovation with the licensing agency’s 
<<<PAGE 403>>>
403  
approval date on or after February 14, 2005, shall be protected 
throughout by a sprinkler system. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.10.3. Heating and Ventilating. Suitable artificial heat shall be furnished to 
maintain75 degrees F inside temperature with 10 degrees F outside 
temperature. Circulating hot water from a remote boiler or vapor 
steam with circulating pump sand controls on emergency electrical 
service to provide heating in case of power failures are the preferred 
methods of heating. 
Electrical heating will be approved provided a standby electrical 
generator is provided of capacity to furnish 80% of the maximum 
heating load in addition to other power and lighting loads that maybe 
connected to it, or the hospital is supplied by two electric service 
lines connected to separate transformers at the sub-station so 
arranged that electric service can be maintained in case of failure of 
one line or transformer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 11 PLUMBING 
 
Rule 41.11.1. All institutions subject to these standards shall be connected to an  
approved municipal water system or to a private supply whose purity         
has been certified by the laboratory of the Department of Health.         
Private supplies must be sampled, tested, and its purity certified at          
least twice annually and immediately following any repair or           
modification to the underground lines, the elevated tank, or to the well          
or pump. Supply must be adequate, both as to volume and pressure for 
firefighting purposes. Deficiencies in either must be remedied by the 
provision of auxiliary pumps, pressure tanks or elevated tanks as may        
be required. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.11.2. An approved method of supplying hot water for all hospital uses must be 
provided. Water to lavatories and scrub sinks must be 100 degrees-115ºF. 
Water to mechanical dishwashers must be delivered at 180 degrees F for 
rinsing. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.11.3. Supply piping within the building shall be in accordance with the local code. 
<<<PAGE 404>>>
404  
 
 
Special care must be taken to avoid use of any device or installation which 
might cause contamination of the supply through back-siphonage or cross 
connections. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 12 SEWAGE DISPOSAL 
 
Rule 41.12.1. All institutions subject to these standards shall dispose of all sanitary         
wastes through connection to a suitable municipal sewerage system or 
through a private sewerage system that has been approved in writing by       
the Division of Environmental Services, Onsite Wastewater of the 
Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.12.2. All fixtures located in the kitchen, including the dishwasher, shall be 
installed so as to empty into a drain which is not directly connected to 
the sanitary house drain. Kitchen drain may empty into a manhole or 
catch basin having a perforated cover with an elevation of at least 24" 
below the kitchen floor evaluation, and hence to the sewer. Exceptions: 
existing licensed institutions which have no plumbing fixtures installed 
on floors which are above the floor on which the kitchen is located. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 13 EQUIPMENT 
 
Rule 41.13.1. Medical Equipment Management. In order to ensure safe and reliable 
operation of medical equipment, qualified personnel shall maintain all 
medical equipment, regardless of ownership. Such maintenance shall be 
based upon criteria such as manufacturer’s recommendations, common 
industry practices and current hospital experience and shall include the 
following: 
 
1. Current equipment inventory. 
 
2. Periodic electrical safety inspections and preventive maintenance. 
 
<<<PAGE 405>>>
405  
3. Documentation of all testing and maintenance activities, 
inclusive of any repairs. 
 
4. Reporting and investigating equipment problems, failures, and 
user errors that may have an adverse effect on patient safety or 
the quality of care. 
5. Monitoring and acting on equipment hazard notice and recalls. 
 
6. Monitoring and reporting incidents in which a medical 
device is suspected or attributed to the death, serious 
injury, or serious illness of any individual, as required by 
the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990. 
 
7. The facility shall maintain life support equipment utilizing 
maintenance strategies designed to minimize clinical and 
physical risks inherent in use of such equipment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.13.2. Electric Nurse Call. There shall be  installed a low voltage nurse call        
system for every  bed and such other areas as deemed necessary, with 
annunciator at nurses’ station and nurses work area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 14 EMERGENCY ELECTRIC SERVICE 
 
Rule 41.14.1. General. To provide electricity during an interruption of the normal electric 
supply that could affect the medical care, treatment, or safety of                      
the occupants, an emergency source of electricity shall be provided and 
connected to certain circuits for lighting and power. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.2. Source. The source of this emergency electric service shall be an        
emergency generator, with a stand-by supply of fuel for 24 hours. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.3. Patient Rooms: Each patient room shall meet the following requirements: 
 
<<<PAGE 406>>>
406  
1. Area. Shall provide 120 sq. ft. of floor area for a single bedroom and 
100 sq. ft.  per bed in multi-bedrooms with new construction or 
renovation approved by the licensing agency on or after February 
14, 2005. 
 
2. Ceiling Height. Shall be 8'0" minimum. 
 
3. Windows. All rooms housing patients shall be outside rooms and 
shall have window area equal to 1/8th of the floor area. The sill 
shall not be higher than 36inches above the floor and shall be 
above grade. Windows shall not have any obstruction to vision 
(wall, cooling tower, etc.) within 50 feet as measured 
perpendicular to the plane of the window. 
 
4. Storage. Each patient shall be provided with a hanging storage space 
of not less than 16" x 24" x 52" for personal belongings. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.4.  Furnishings: 
 
1. Bed. Each patient room shall be equipped with an adjustable bed. 
 
2. Bedside Cabinet. A bedside cabinet shall be provided for each 
patient. It should contain a water service, bedpan, urinal, 
emesis basin, and bath basin. (These may be disposable.) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.5. Rooms shall be equipped with curtains or blinds at windows. All        
curtains shall have a flame spread of 25 or less. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.6. Cubicle curtains or equivalent built-in devices for privacy in all multi-
bedrooms shall be provided. They shall have a flame spread of 25 or less. 
Cubicle curtains shall encircle the bed on three sides. Must comply with 
mesh webbing for sprinkler systems. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
 
<<<PAGE 407>>>
407  
Rule 41.14.7. A lavatory equipped with wrist action handles, shall be located in the 
room or in a private toilet room. (If a water closet is provided, a bedpan 
washer is recommended.) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.8. Patient bed light shall be provided which shall be capable of control by the 
patient. Provide a night light bright enough for the staff to perform routine 
duties but dim enough so as not to disturb the patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.9. Service Areas. The size of each service area will depend on the number and 
type beds within the unit and shall include the following: 
 
1. Nurse Station. For nurses charting, doctors charting, 
communication and storage for supplies and nurses’ personal 
effects. 
 
2. Staff Toilet with Lavatory. Convenient to nurse’s station. 
 
3. Clean Work Room. For storage and assembly of supplies for 
nursing procedures. Shall contain cabinets or  storage carts, 
work counter and sink. 
 
4. Soiled Utility. Shall contain deep sink, work counter, waste 
receptacle, soiled linen receptacle, and provision for washing 
bedpans if not 
provided elsewhere. 
5. Medicine Station. Adjacent to nurses’ station, with sink, small 
refrigerator, locked storage, narcotic locker with a light in the 
nurse’s station that indicates when the door is open and work 
counter. (May be in clean work room in self-contained cabinet.) 
 
6. Clean Linen Storage. A closet large enough to hold an adequate 
supply of clean linen. 
 
7. Provision for between-meal nourishments. 
 
8. Patient Bath. At least one tub or shower-stall for each 18 
patients not served by private bath. 
<<<PAGE 408>>>
408  
 
9. Stretcher and Wheelchair Storage Area. 
 
10. Fire Extinguisher. One (1) approved Class ABC unit for each 3000 sq. ft. 
 
11. Janitor's Closet. Closet large enough to contain floor 
receptor with plumbing and space for some supplies and 
mop buckets. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.14.10. Isolation Room: (At least one per hospital). It shall contain: 
 
1. One patient bed per room. 
 
2. Private lavatory and toilet. 
 
3. View window 10" x 10" in door. 
 
4. Anteroom with door to corridor and door into patient room. This 
anteroom shall have a lavatory, shelving, space for linen hamper, 
and hanging space adequate for isolation techniques. Supply and 
exhaust are to be separate from the patient room supply and 
exhaust. 
 
A. An alternative design that omits the anteroom may be 
approved  if the facility demonstrates that its alternative 
design meets all required safety outcomes, specifically air 
pressure differentials, in accordance with the current edition 
of the Guidelines for Design and Construction of Hospitals 
Facility Guidelines Institute (FGI). Facilities utilizing this 
performance-based design must maintain engineering 
documentation, which shall mean a written report or 
certification, signed by a Professional Engineer (PE) 
licensed in the State of Mississippi, that verifies the 
alternative design has been tested and meets the specific air 
pressure differential, air exchange rate, and other relevant 
safety outcome standards set forth in the applicable edition 
of the FGI Guidelines. This documentation must be provided 
to the licensing agency upon request. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 409>>>
409  
 
Rule 41.14.11. Detention Room. If a detention room is provided, it shall be provided          
with key- only lock on all doors operated from both sides and security           
screen on the window for disturbed or confused patients. The isolation room 
may be modified for this purpose. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 15 SPECIAL CARE 
 
Rule 41.15.1. In addition to the requirements for patient rooms and service areas, a       
special care area, where provided, shall meet fire safety standards and 
electrical hazard standards applicable to intensive care units, cardiac units, 
and other such areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.2. A waiting room shall be provided in this area and shall contain 10 sq. ft. per         
bed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.3. Newborn Nursery shall have: 
 
1. Lavatory with wrist action blade handles. 
 
2. Emergency nurses call. 
 
3. Oxygen, with equipment for measuring oxygen content. 
 
4. Facilities for viewing the babies. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.4. Each full-term nursery shall contain no more than 12 bassinets with a 
minimum area of 24 sq. ft. for each bassinet. An examination and work 
room shall be provided. One work room may serve more than one 
nursery. The nursery is to be entered only through the work room. There 
shall be a separate bassinet for each infant consisting of stand, 
removable basket, cabinet, or table for storage of individual utensils and 
supplies. 
 
<<<PAGE 410>>>
410  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.5. Janitor's closet shall be provided. (See Rule 41.14.9(11)). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.6. Specific provisions shall be made to take care of premature babies. Incubators 
suitable for the care of premature infants shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.7. Nursery heating shall be variable from 75 degrees - 80 degrees, with 
provisions for maintaining a relative humidity above 50%. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.8. All electric receptacles in each nursery shall be on the emergency circuit. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.9. Pediatric Unit (if provided as a separate unit) shall contain: 
 
1. Patient room as described in Rule 41.14.3. 
2. 50 sq. ft. per crib, with adequate space provided for person in attendance. 
 
3. Service areas, in addition to those described in Rule 
41.14.9, shall include a treatment room with lavatory 
with wrist action blade handles. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.15.10. Psychiatric Unit, if provided, shall contain rooms and service areas as      
described in Rule 41.14.3 and Rule 41.14.9. In addition, there shall be 
physician’s office, examining room, conference room, dining room and day 
room. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 16 SURGICAL SUITE 
 
<<<PAGE 411>>>
411  
Rule 41.16.1. This area shall be located so as to prevent through traffic and shall contain: 
 
1. At least one operating room, with adequate sterile storage cabinets, for 
the first 50beds and thereafter the number of rooms should be based 
on the expected surgical workload. 
 
2. Recovery room with charting space, medication storage and 
preparation and sink are required. Oxygen, suction, and other life 
supporting equipment must be immediately available to the patient 
and shall meet the requirements of National Fire Protection 
Association NFPA 99. 
 
3. A service area which shall include: 
A. Surgical supervisor's station. 
B. Provision for high-speed sterilization of dropped 
instruments readily available to operating room. 
C. Medicine preparation and storage area. 
D. Scrub station for two persons to scrub simultaneously. 
E. Clean up room with a two-compartment sink and drain 
board and space for a dirty linen hamper. 
F. Anesthesia storage in compliance with National Fire 
Protection Association NFPA 99. 
G. Oxygen and nitrous oxide storage in compliance with 
National Fire Protection Association NFPA (99). 
H. Janitors closet (See Rule 41.14.9). 
I. Physicians’ locker room containing toilet and shower 
with entry from non-sterile area and exit into sub-
sterile area. 
J. Nurses' locker room containing toilet and shower with 
entry from non-sterile area and exit into sub-sterile 
area. 
K. Storage for transport beds. 
<<<PAGE 412>>>
412  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.16.2. All finishes shall be capable of repeated scrubbings. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.16.3. Heating and cooling in accordance with AIA guidelines. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.16.4. Special lighting shall be supplied that eliminated shadows in the operating 
field with enough background illumination to avoid excessive contrast. Emergency 
lighting shall comply with Subchapter 14. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.16.5. Fire extinguishers shall be provided and distributed in accordance with NFPA10. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 17 CENTRAL STERILE SUPPLY 
Rule 41.17.1. The following areas shall be separate: 
1. Receiving and Clean-Up Area. To contain a two-compartment 
sink with two drain boards. 
2. Pack Make Up. Shall have autoclaves, work counter and unsterile 
storage. 
3. Sterile Storage Area. Should have pass-through to corridor. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 18 OBSTETRICAL SUITE 
Rule 41.18.1. The requirements of this area are the same as Rule 41.17.1 except for Rule 
41.17.1(2) & (3). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 413>>>
413  
Rule 41.18.2. A labor room shall be provided with necessary equipment, a lavatory with 
wrist action blade handles, and shall be acoustically treated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 19 OUTPATIENT AND TRAUMA AREA 
Rule 41.19.1. This area shall be located to prevent outpatient from traversing inpatient        
             areas and shall include: 
1. A well-marked and sheltered entry with nearby parking and 
access for ambulance. 
2. Waiting room with public telephone, drinking fountain, and toilet. 
3. Admission and record area. 
4. Examination and treatment rooms containing lavatory with 
wrist action blade handles and nurse call station. These rooms 
shall be so arranged that stretcher patients can be examined 
and treated. 
5. Trauma room adequate for cast work and with sufficient 
lighting for detailed examinations. 
 
6. Storage for sterile supplies. 
 
7. Medicine preparation and storage area that can be locked. 
 
8. Transport bed and wheelchair storage. 
 
9. Janitor’s closet (See Rule 41.14.9). 
 
10. Dirty Utility area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.19.2. The walls and floors shall be capable of repeated washings in all areas 
except trauma area which shall have floors, walls, and ceilings           
capable of repeated washings. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 414>>>
414  
Subchapter 20 RADIOLOGY SUITE 
 
Rule 41.20.1. This area should be as close to outpatient area as practical. It shall contain: 
 
1. Radiographic room or rooms. 
 
2. Film processing room. 
3. Film filing room. 
 
4. Toilet available to each fluoroscopy room. 
 
5. Dressing room (at least two per radiographic room). 
 
6. Patient waiting area. 
 
7. Administrative area, including space for film viewing. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 21 LABORATORY 
 
Rule 41.21.1. Adequate space for the following services shall be provided:          
chemistry, bacteriology, serology, pathology, and hematology.          
Provision shall be made for: 
 
1. Glass washing and sterilizing. 
 
2. Administrative area, to include space for records and files. 
 
3. Blood storage. 
 
4. Specimen collection toilet (This may be primarily for other use). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 22 DRUG ROOM 
 
Rule 41.22.1. Adequate space  shall be  provided for  storage of drugs and for         
keeping of necessary  records. The room shall be capable of being 
<<<PAGE 415>>>
415  
securely locked in accordance with regulations regarding storage of 
dangerous drugs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 23 DIETARY 
 
Rule 41.23.1. Construction and equipment shall comply with Department of Health 
regulations, and shall include: 
 
1. Food preparation center. Provide lavatory (without mirror) with 
wrist action blades, soap dispenser and disposable towel 
dispenser. All cooking appliances to have ventilating hood. 
 
2. Food serving facilities. If dining space is provided, it shall 
contain a minimum of15 sq. ft. per person seated. 
 
3. Dishwashing room. Provide commercial type dishwashing equipment. 
4. Pot washing facilities. 
 
5. Refrigerated storage (three-day supply). 
 
6. Day storage (three-day supply). 
 
7. Cart cleaning facilities (can be in dishwashing room). 
 
8. Can wash and storage (must be fly-tight). 
 
9. Cart storage. 
 
10. Dietitian's office. 
 
11. Janitor’s closet (See Rule 41.14.9(11)). 
 
12. Personnel toilets and lockers convenient to, but not in, the kitchen proper. 
 
13. Approved automatic fire extinguisher system in range hood. In 
addition, Class K extinguisher to be installed in the kitchen. 
 
<<<PAGE 416>>>
416  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 24 ADMINISTRATIVE 
AREA Rule 41.24.1. Administrative         
Area. To include: 
1. Business office with information desk cashier's station and personnel 
toilets. 
 
2. Administrator's office. 
 
3. Admitting area. 
 
4. Lobby or foyer, with public toilets. 
 
5. Medical Library (This area should be as close to medical records as 
possible). 
 
6. Space for conferences and in-service training. 
 
7. Medical records - office and storage. 
 
8. Director of Nurses' office. 
 
9. Fire Extinguisher. An approved Class 2A unit shall be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.24.2. Housekeeping Area. To include: 
 
1. Housekeeper's office. 
2. Storage space for staff carts, if used. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.24.3. Laundry. To include: 
 
1. Soiled linen room with lavatory with wrist action blades. 
<<<PAGE 417>>>
417  
 
2. Clean linen and mending area. (To include space for storage of 
clean linen carts). 
 
3. Laundry process room. Commercial type equipment 
sufficient for the needs of the hospital unless contract 
service is used. 
 
4. Janitor’s closet (See Rule 41.14.9(11)). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.24.4. General Storage. There shall be a one-hour fire rated lockable room, or 
separate building provided, which contains at least 18 sq. ft. per licensed bed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.24.5. Boiler Room. Space shall be adequate for the installation and maintenance of 
the required machinery. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.24.6. Maintenance Area. Sufficient area for performing routine maintenance 
activities shall be provided and shall include office for maintenance 
engineer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 25 NURSING SERVICES EMERGENCY 
 
Rule 41.25.1. General. The hospital shall have a procedure for taking care of        
emergency cases. Participation shall not be limited to hospitals which          
have organized emergency services or departments. There shall be            
effective policies and procedures relating to the staff, functions of the 
service, and emergency room medical records and adequate facilities in 
order to assure the health and safety of the patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 26 ORGANIZATION AND DIRECTION 
<<<PAGE 418>>>
418  
 
Rule 41.26.1. The department or service shall be organized, directed by qualified personnel, 
and integrated with other departments of the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.26.2. There shall be written policies which shall be enforced to control emergency 
room procedures. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.26.3. The policies and procedures governing medical care provided in the 
emergency service or department shall be established by and shall be a 
continuing responsibility of the medical staff. The Emergency 
Department shall have written policies and procedures governing the 
receipt of patients from emergency medical services and the transfer of 
patients to a receiving facility. The policies must comply with 
Mississippi Emergency Medical Services Rules and Regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.26.4. The emergency service shall be supervised by a qualified member of the 
medical staff,  and nursing  functions shall be the responsibility of a 
registered professional nurse. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.26.5. The administrative functions shall be the responsibility of a member of 
the hospital administration. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 27 FACILITIES 
 
Rule 41.27.1. Facilities shall be provided to assure prompt diagnosis and emergency      
treatment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.27.2. Facilities shall be separate and independent of the operating room. 
 
<<<PAGE 419>>>
419  
Rule 41.27.3. Freestanding Emergency Room (FER). Means a facility open twenty-
four hours a day for the treatment of urgent and emergent medical 
conditions which is not located on a hospital campus. In order to be 
eligible for licensure under this chapter, the freestanding emergency 
room shall be located at least fifteen (15) miles from the nearest hospital-
based emergency room in any rural community where the federal 
Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services (CMS) had previously 
designated a rural hospital as a critical access hospital and that 
designation has been revoked. A FER shall not retain any patient beyond 
23 hours and 59 minutes under normal operations and shall not hold 
itself out as an emergency hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.27.4. Diagnostic and treatment equipment, drugs, supplies, and space, 
including a sufficient number of treatment rooms, shall be adequate in 
terms of the size and scope of services provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 28 MEDICAL AND NURSING PERSONNEL 
Rule 41.28.1. There shall be adequate medical and nursing personnel available at all times. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.28.2. The medical staff shall be responsible for insuring adequate medical coverage 
for emergency services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.28.3. Qualified physicians shall be regularly available at all times for the 
emergency service, either on duty or on call. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.28.4. Qualified nurses shall be available at all times and in sufficient number 
to deal with the number and extent of emergency services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 29 MEDICAL RECORDS 
<<<PAGE 420>>>
420  
Rule 41.29.1. Adequate medical records on each patient shall be kept. The emergency 
medical record shall contain: 
 
1. Patient identification. 
 
2. History of disease or injury. 
 
3. Physical findings. 
 
4. Laboratory and x-ray reports, if any. 
 
5. Diagnosis. 
 
6. Record of treatment. 
 
7. Disposition of the case. 
 
8. Signature of a physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.29.2. Medical records for patients treated in the emergency service shall be 
maintained and correlated with other hospital records in accordance 
with Medical Records section. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.29.3. Where appropriate, medical records of emergency services shall be 
integrated with those of the inpatient and outpatient services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.29.4. An emergency service register shall be maintained and shall contain at 
least: date and time, patient identification, injury or disease, treatment, 
and the name of the doctor. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 30 NURSING 
 
<<<PAGE 421>>>
421  
Rule 41.30.1. The hospital shall maintain an organized nursing staff to provide high 
quality nursing care for the needs of the patients and to be responsible           
to the hospital for the professional performance of its members. The  
nursing service shall be under the direction of a legally and            
professionally qualified registered nurse. There shall also be a             
sufficient number of duly licensed registered nurses on duty at all times 
to plan, assign, supervise, and evaluate nursing care, as well as to give 
patients the nursing care that requires judgment and specialized skills          
of a registered nurse. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.2. The director of nursing service shall be qualified by education,          
experience, and demonstrated ability to organize, coordinate, and            
evaluate the work of the service. He or she shall be qualified in the fields       
of nursing and administration consistent with the complexity and scope       
of operation of the hospital and shall be responsible to the administrator       
for developing and implementing policies and procedures of the service        
in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.3. Individual staffing patterns shall be developed for each nursing care         
unit, including the surgical and obstetrical suites, each special care unit,           
and outpatient services. The staffing patterns shall provide for sufficient 
nursing personnel and for adequate supervision and direction                      
by registered nurses consistent with the size and complexity of the 
hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.4. There shall be an adequate number of registered nurses readily           
available to patients requiring their services. A registered nurse must 
plan, supervise, and evaluate the nursing care of each patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.30.5. Licensed practical nurses currently licensed to practice within the state, as          
well as other ancillary nursing personnel, may be used to give nursing care          
that does not require the skill and judgment of a registered nurse. Their 
performance shall be supervised by one or more registered nurses. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 422>>>
422  
 
Rule 41.30.6. To develop better patterns of utilization of nursing personnel, periodic 
evaluation of the activities and effectiveness of the nursing staff should       
be conducted 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.7. The nursing service shall have a current written organizational plan that 
delineates its functional structure and its mechanisms for cooperative 
planning and decision making. This plan shall be an integral part of the 
overall hospital plan and its shall: 
 
1. Be made available to all nursing personnel. 
 
2. Be reviewed periodically and revised as necessary. 
 
3. Reflect the staffing pattern for nursing personnel throughout the hospital. 
 
4. Delineate the functions for which nursing service is responsible. 
 
5. Indicate all positions required to carry out such functions. 
 
6. Contain job descriptions for each position classification in 
nursing service that delineate the functions, responsibilities, and 
desired qualifications of each classification, and should be made 
available to nursing personnel at the time of employment. 
 
7. Indicate the lines of communication within nursing service. 
 
8. Define the relationships of nursing service to all other 
services and departments in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.8. If the hospital provides clinical facilities for the education and training of 
nursing students, licensed practical nurses, nurses’ aides, or other 
categories of nursing personnel, there shall be a written agreement that 
defines the role and responsibility of both the nursing service and the 
education program. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 423>>>
423  
 
Rule 41.30.9. In the planning, decision making, and formulation of policies that affect 
the operation of nursing service, the nursing care of patients, or the 
patients' environment, the recommendations of representatives of nursing 
service should be considered. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.10. In hospitals where the size of the nursing staff permits, nursing 
committees should be formally organized to facilitate the establishment 
and attainment of goals and objectives of the nursing service. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.11. Written nursing care and administrative policies and procedures 
shall be developed to provide the nursing staff with acceptable 
methods of meeting its responsibilities and achieving projected goals 
through realistic and attainable goals. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.12. Nursing care policies and procedures shall be consistent with 
professionally recognized standards of nursing practice and shall be in 
accordance with Nurse Practice Act of the State of Mississippi. They 
should take into account new equipment and current practice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.13. Policies shall be developed to address the following: 
 
1. Noting diagnostic and therapeutic orders. 
 
2. Assignment of nursing care to patients. 
 
3. Administration of medications. 
 
4. Charting by nursing personnel. 
 
5. Infection control. 
 
<<<PAGE 424>>>
424  
6. Patient and personnel safety. 
 
7. Prevention of pressure sores. 
 
8. Prevention of medication errors. 
 
9. Reporting of adverse drug reactions. 
 
10. Comprehensive assessment. 
 
11. Pain Management. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.14. All nursing personnel, including non-employee licensed nurses who are 
working in the hospital, must adhere to the hospital’s policies and 
procedures. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.15. Policies and procedures shall be developed to include plans for 
orientation for all newly employed and non-employee nursing 
personnel. The policies and procedures shall specify specific subjects 
and topics to be covered in the orientation process. The facility shall 
maintain documented evidence of orientation of all nursing personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.16. Written copies of the procedure manual shall be available to the nursing 
staff in every nursing care unit and service area and to other services and 
departments in the hospital.  The nursing procedure manual should be 
used to: 
 
1. Provide a basis for training programs to enable new nursing 
personnel to acquire local knowledge and current skills. 
 
2. Provide a ready reference on procedures for all nursing personnel. 
 
3. Standardize procedures and equipment. 
 
4. Provide a basis for evaluation and study to insure 
<<<PAGE 425>>>
425  
continued improvements in techniques. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.17. The nursing policies and procedures shall be developed, periodically 
reviewed, and revised as necessary by nursing representatives in 
cooperation with administration, the medical staff, and other hospital 
services and departments concerned. All revisions shall be dated to 
indicate the date of the latest review. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.18. There  shall be  evidence established that the  nursing service 
provides safe, efficient, and therapeutically effective nursing care 
through the planning of each patient's care and the effective 
implementation of the plans. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.19. A brief and pertinent written nursing care plan should be developed 
for each patient. It should include: 
 
1. Medication, treatment, and other items ordered by 
individuals granted clinical privileges and by authorized 
house staff members. 
 
2. Nursing care needed. 
 
3. Long-term goals and short-term goals. 
 
4. Patient and family teaching and instructional programs. 
 
5. The socio-psychological needs of the patient. 
 
6. Preventative nursing care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.20. The nursing care plan should be initiated upon admission of the patient 
and, as a part of the long-term goal, should include discharge plans. 
<<<PAGE 426>>>
426  
Nursing records and reports that reflect the patient's progress and the 
nursing care planned should be maintained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.21. Meetings of the nursing staff shall be held at least monthly in order 
to discuss nursing service problems and policies. Minutes of these 
meetings shall be kept. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.22. An in-service education program shall be provided for the improvement 
of nursing care and service through increased proficiency and 
knowledge of nursing personnel. The in-service program shall be 
planned, scheduled, documented, and held on a continuing basis. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.23. All nursing personnel shall have training and a program of in-
service and continuing education commensurate with the duties and 
responsibilities of the individual. All training shall be documented 
for each individual so employed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.24. The in-service should include but not limit topics to pressure sore 
prevention, prevention of medication errors, pain management, 
patient’s rights, and dignity. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.25. In hospitals where cardiac monitors are used on the nursing unit, rather 
than in a separate and distinct "Special Care Unit" as described in 
Subchapter 36 of these standards, special training, protocols, and 
staffing are required. Initial coronary care course that has been approved 
by the Mississippi State Board of Nursing that will include as a 
minimum the basic Cardiac Life Support Course is required for all 
Registered Nurses and Licensed Practical Nurses who have 
responsibilities for caring for cardiac monitored patients. A program of 
in-service and continuing education commensurate with the duties and 
responsibilities of the individual shall be established and documented 
for each individual so employed. 
<<<PAGE 427>>>
427  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.26. Protocols. Protocols shall be established and approved for response of 
trained, experienced Registered Professional Nurses to codes or cardiac 
emergencies that deal with lethal arrhythmias, hypotension, 
defibrillation, heart block and respiratory arrest by the nursing service 
and medical staff of each hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.30.27. Staffing. Nurse staffing will be evaluated on an individual basis for 
compliance. Factors to be considered are number of patients on 
monitors, layout of facility and proximity of emergency room to nursing 
unit, volume of services in the OB and Nursery and the emergency 
room, the number of patients on the medical/surgical floor and other 
responsibilities that the RN may have other than the ones described 
above. A sufficient number of RNs shall be available to meet the needs 
of the patients served. In the event that a hospital has patients on cardiac 
monitors in use in one area of the hospital and an emergency room in 
another area, the facility must have more than one RN in house to care 
for the patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 31 OBSTETRICS AND NEWBORN NURSERY ORGANIZATION 
 
Rule 41.31.1. Obstetrics and newborn nursery services shall be under the direction of a 
member of the staff of physicians who has been duly appointed for this 
service and who has experience in maternity and newborn care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.2. There shall be a qualified professional registered nurse responsible at all 
times for the nursing care of maternity patients and newborn infants. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.3. Provisions shall be made for pre-employment and annual health 
examinations for all personnel on this service. 
 
<<<PAGE 428>>>
428  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.4. Physical facilities for perinatal care in hospitals shall be conducive to 
care that meets the normal physiologic and psychosocial needs of 
mothers, neonates, and their families. The facilities provide for 
deviations from the norm consistent with professionally recognized 
standards/guidelines. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.5. The obstetrical service should have facilities for the following components: 
<<<PAGE 429>>>
429 
 
1. Antepartum care and testing. 
 
2. Fetal diagnostic services. 
 
3. Admission/observation/waiting. 
 
4. Labor. 
 
5. Delivery/cesarean birth. 
 
6. Newborn nursery. 
 
7. Newborn Intensive Care (Levels II and III only). 
 
8. Recovery and postpartum care. 
 
9. Visitation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.6. Any facility providing obstetric care shall have at least the following 
services available: 
 
1. Identification of high-risk mothers and fetuses. 
 
2. Equipment for continuous fetal heart rate monitoring or 
capability of following auscultation guidelines. 
 
3. Capabilities to begin a cesarean delivery within 30 minutes of a 
decision to do so. 
 
4. Blood and fresh-frozen plasma for transfusion. 
 
5. Anesthesia on a 24-hour basis. 
 
6. Radiology and ultrasound examination. 
 
7. Neonatal resuscitation, including equipment and trained personnel. 
 
<<<PAGE 430>>>
430 
 
8. Laboratory testing on a 24-hour basis. 
 
9. Consultation and transfer agreement. 
 
10. Nursery. 
 
11. Data collection and retrieval. 
 
12. Patient education. 
Rule 41.31.7. Staffing. The facility is staffed to meet its patient care commitments 
consistent with professionally recognized guidelines. There must be a 
registered nurse immediately available for direct patient care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.8. Level I. 
 
1. Surveillance and care of all patients admitted to the obstetric 
service, with an established triage system for identifying high-
risk mothers who should be transferred to a facility that 
provides level II and III care prior to delivery. 
 
2. Proper detection and supportive care of unanticipated maternal-fetal 
problems that occur during labor and delivery. 
 
3. Performance of cesarean delivery. 
 
4. Care of postpartum conditions. 
 
5. Personnel trained in neonatal resuscitation in the hospital at all times. 
 
6. Stabilization of unexpectedly small or sick neonates before 
transfer to a facility that provides level II or III care. 
 
7. Evaluation of the condition of healthy neonates and 
continuing care of these neonates until their discharge. 
 
8. Patient education.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 Rule 41.31.9.  
<<<PAGE 431>>>
431 
 
          Rule 41.31.9. Level II. 
1. Performance of level I services. 
 
2. Management of high-risk mothers and neonates admitted and 
evaluated for continued management and/or appropriate 
transfer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.10. Level III. 
 
1. Provision of full range of perinatal care services for all mothers and 
neonates. 
2. Research support. 
3. Completion, analysis, and evaluation of regional data. 
Rule 41.31.11. Antepartum Care. There should be policies for the care of pregnant 
patients with obstetric, medical, or surgical complications and for 
maternal transfer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.12. Intra-partum Services: Labor and Delivery. Intra-partum care should be 
both personalized and comprehensive with continuous surveillance of 
the mother and fetus. There should be written policies and procedures 
in regard to: 
 
1. Assessment. 
 
2. Admission. 
 
3. Medical records (including complete prenatal history and physical). 
 
4. Consent forms. 
 
5. Management of labor including assessment of fetal well-being. 
 
6. Term patients. 
<<<PAGE 432>>>
432 
 
 
7. Preterm patients. 
 
8. Premature rupture of membranes. 
 
9. Preeclampsia/eclampsia. 
 
10. Third trimester hemorrhage. 
 
11. Pregnancy Induced Hypertension (PIH). 
 
12. Patients receiving oxytoxics or tocolytics. 
 
13. Patients with stillbirths and miscarriages. 
 
14. Pain control during Labor and Delivery. 
 
15. Management of Delivery. 
 
16. Emergency cesarean delivery (capability within 30 minutes). 
 
17. Assessment of fetal maturity prior to repeat cesarean 
delivery or induction of labor. 
 
18. Vaginal birth after cesarean delivery. 
 
19. Assessment and care of neonate in the delivery room. 
 
20. Infection control in the Obstetric and newborn areas. 
21. A delivery room record shall be kept that will indicate: 
 
A. The name of the patient. 
 
B. Date of delivery. 
 
C. Sex of Infant. 
 
D. Apgar. 
<<<PAGE 433>>>
433 
 
E. Weight. 
 
F. Name of physician. 
 
G. Name of persons assisting. 
 
H. What complications, if any, occurred. 
 
I. Type of anesthesia used. 
 
J. Name of person administering anesthesia. 
 
22. Maternal transfer. 
 
23. Immediate postpartum/recovery care. 
 
24. Housekeeping. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.31.13. Newborn Care. There shall be policies and procedures for providing care of 
the neonate including: 
 
1. Immediate stabilization period. 
2. Neonate identification and security. 
3. Assessment of neonatal risks. 
4. Cord blood, Combs, and serology testing. 
5. Eye care. 
6. Subsequent care. 
7. Administration of Vitamin K. 
8. Neonatal screening.  
9. Circumcision. 
<<<PAGE 434>>>
434 
 
10. Parent education. 
 
11. Visitation. 
 
12. Admission of neonates born outside of facility. 
 
13. Housekeeping. 
 
14. Care of or stabilization and transfer of high-risk neonates. 
 
15. Postpartum. There shall be policies and procedures for 
postpartum care of mother. 
 
16. Assessment. 
 
17. Subsequent care (bed rest, ambulation, diet, care of the vulva, 
care of the bowel and bladder functions, bathing, care of the 
breasts, temperature elevation). 
 
18. Postpartum sterilization. 
 
19. Immunization. RHIG and Rubella. 
 
20. Discharge Planning. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 32 OUTPATIENT 
 
Rule 41.32.1. Hospitals rendering outpatient services shall have effective policies 
and procedures relating to the staff, functions of the service, and 
outpatient medical records and adequate facilities in order to assure 
the health and safety of the patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 33 ORGANIZATION 
 
Rule 41.33.1. The outpatient department shall be organized into 
sections according to medical specialties (clinics), the number of which depends on 
the size and the degree of departmentalization of the medical staff, available facilities, 
<<<PAGE 435>>>
435 
 
and the needs of the patients for whom it accepts responsibility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.33.2. The outpatient department shall have appropriate cooperative 
arrangements and communications with the community agencies such as other 
outpatient departments, public health nursing agencies, the department of health, and 
welfare agencies. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.33.3. Clinics shall be integrated with corresponding inpatient services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.33.4. Clinics shall be maintained for the following purposes: 
 
1. Care of ambulatory patient unrelated to inpatient admission or discharge. 
 
2. Study of preadmission patients. 
 
3. Follow-up of discharge hospital patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.33.5. Patients, on their initial visit to the department, shall receive a general 
medical evaluation and patients under continuous care shall receive an adequate 
periodic re-evaluation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.33.6. Established medical screening procedures shall be employed routinely. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 34 PERSONNEL 
 
Rule 41.34.1. There shall be such professional and non-professional personnel as are 
required for efficient operation. 
<<<PAGE 436>>>
436 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.34.2. The outpatient service shall be supervised by a qualified member of 
the medical staff. Either this physician or a qualified administrator 
shall be responsible for administrative services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.34.3. A registered professional nurse shall be responsible for the nursing services of 
the department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.34.4. The number and type of other personnel employed shall reflect the 
volume and type of work carried out and the type of patient served in 
the outpatient department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 35 FACILITIES 
 
Rule 41.35.1. Facilities shall be provided to assure the efficient operation of the department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.35.2. The number of examination and treatment rooms shall be adequate in 
relation to the volume and nature of work performed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.35.3. Suitable facilities for necessary diagnostic tests shall be available 
either through the hospital or some other facility approved to provide 
these services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.35.4. Medical Records. Shall be maintained and correlated with other 
hospital records in accordance with Subchapter 48, Medical Records. 
 
<<<PAGE 437>>>
437 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.35.5. Liaison Conferences. Conference, both departmental and inter-
departmental, shall be conducted to maintain close liaison between the 
various sections within the department and with other hospital 
services, and minutes shall be kept. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 36 SPECIAL CARE UNIT 
 
Rule 41.36.1. Special care units, if provided, shall be properly organized, directed, 
and integrated with other departments or services of the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.2. The hospital organizational plan shall provide for the identification of 
each special care unit and delineate appropriate relationships with 
other clinical areas of the hospital. Each such unit shall be under the 
direction of a qualified physician who has a special interest in, and 
preferable additional experience in providing, this type of care. This 
physician shall also be one who is readily available - The director of 
the special care unit should be responsible for the implementation of 
established policy, which should include at least: 
 
1. Rules for proper utilization of the services. 
 
2. Provision for participation in appropriate training programs 
for the safe and effective use of diagnostic and therapeutic 
equipment for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and for other 
aspects of intensive care. 
3. Plans for supervision of the collection and analysis of clinical 
data needed for the retrospective evaluation of the care provided 
in the unit. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.3. The activities within a multipurpose special care unit should be guided by a 
multi- disciplinary committee, with one member serving as director of the 
unit. 
<<<PAGE 438>>>
438 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.4. Special care unit personnel shall be prepared for their responsibilities 
through appropriate training and educational programs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.5. All nursing personnel assigned to a special care unit must have 
completed an educational course specifically oriented to their level of 
participation in the care of seriously ill patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.6. A continuing education program developed specifically for the 
personnel in the unit must be provided in order to enable them to 
maintain and improve their skills, as well as to learn new techniques. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.7. Registered nurses and health care personnel may serve as assistant or 
backup personnel under the direct supervision of a qualified special 
care unit nurse. All nurses with patient care responsibility in the unit 
must have the ability to recognize clinical signs and symptoms that 
require notification of a physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.8. Whatever the design or purpose of the unit, enough space shall be 
provided around each bed to make it easily accessible for routine and 
emergency care of the patients and also to accommodate bulky 
equipment that may be needed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.9. Oxygen and suction and properly grounded electrical outlets shall be 
readily available to every patient. Each bed shall be readily adjustable 
to various therapeutic positions, easily moved for transport, shall have a 
locking mechanism for a secure stationary position and, where feasible 
a removable headboard. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 439>>>
439 
 
 
Rule 41.36.10. Direct visual observation of all patients should be possible from a central 
vantage point, yet patients should have a reasonable amount of privacy. 
They should be sheltered as much as possible from the activity and noise of 
the unit by partitions, drapes, and acoustic ceilings, but caution should be 
exercised in the use of carpeting and under carpet padding both as to fire 
resistance and potential production of toxic fumes in case of fire. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.11. There shall be an alarm system for special care unit personnel to 
summon additional personnel in an emergency. The alarm should be 
connected to any area where unit personnel might be, such as 
physician's sleeping rooms, consultation rooms, nurse’s lounges, and 
nurses' stations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.12. The kind and quality of equipment in the special care unit shall depend 
upon the needs of the patients treated. Diagnostic monitoring and 
resuscitative equipment, such as respiratory assist apparatus, 
defibrillators, pacemakers, phlebotomy and tracheostomy sets, 
endotracheal tubes, laryngoscopes, and other such devices should be 
easily available within the unit, and in good working order. There shall 
be a written preventive maintenance program that includes techniques 
for cleaning and for contamination control, as well as for the periodic 
testing of all equipment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.13. When any electronic devices are used on patients, especially patients 
who have intravenous catheters or wires leading to the heart, special 
safety precautions related to proper grounding, current leakage and 
device-safety must be observed. Electrically operated beds are a 
potential electrical hazard where the patient is physically connected to 
any other electrical device. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.14. Expert advice concerning the safe use of, and preventive maintenance 
for, all biomedical devices and electrical installations shall be readily 
available at all times. Documentation of safety testing should be 
provided on a regular basis to the unit director. 
<<<PAGE 440>>>
440 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.15. There shall be specific written policies and procedures for each special care 
unit, which supplement the basic hospital policies and procedures. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.36.16. Because of the intensity of care given within the unit, and of the critical 
nature of the illnesses of patients cared for in it, written policies, and 
procedures additional to basic hospital policies should be developed to 
guide personnel in the management of the unique situations within the 
unit. These policies and procedures should be developed and approved 
by the medical staff, in cooperation with the nursing staff and with other 
hospital departments and services and the hospital administration as 
necessary. They should be periodically reviewed and revised as 
indicated. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 37 SURGERY AND ANESTHESIA 
 
Rule 41.37.1. General. Surgical services are optional, but if this service is provided, 
there shall be effective policies and procedures regarding surgical 
privileges, maintenance of the operating rooms, and evaluation of the 
surgical patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 38 SURGERY 
 
Rule 41.38.1. Surgical privileges shall be delineated for all physicians doing surgery in 
accordance with the competencies of each physician. A roster of 
surgeons specifying the surgical privileges of each shall be kept in the 
confidential files of the operation room supervisor and in the files of the 
administrator. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.2. In any procedure with unusual hazard to life, there shall be present and 
scrubbed as first assistant a physician designated by the credentials 
committee as being qualified to assist in major surgery. 
<<<PAGE 441>>>
441 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.3. The operating room register shall be complete and up to date. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.4. There shall be a complete history and physical work-up in the chart of 
every patient prior to surgery (whether the surgery is major or 
minor). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.5. A properly executed consent form for operation shall be in the 
patient's chart prior to surgery. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.6. There shall be adequate provision for immediate post-operative care. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.7. An operative report describing techniques and findings shall be written or 
dictated immediately following surgery and signed by the surgeon. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.8. All infections of clean surgical cases shall be recorded and reported to the 
administration. A procedure shall exist for the investigation of such cases. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.9. The operating rooms shall be supervised by an experienced registered 
professional nurse. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.10. The following equipment shall be available to the operating suites: 
Call-in system, resuscitator, defibrillator, aspirator, thoracotomy set, and 
tracheotomy set. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 442>>>
442 
 
Rule 41.38.11. The operating room suite and accessory services shall be so located that 
traffic in and out can be controlled and there is no through traffic. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.12. Precautions shall be taken to eliminate hazards of explosions, 
including use of shoes with conductive soles and prohibition of nylon 
garments. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.38.13. Rules and regulations or policies related to the operating room shall be 
available and posted. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 39 ANESTHESIA 
 
Rule 41.39.1. The Department of Anesthesia shall have effective policies and 
procedures regarding staff privileges, the administration of anesthetics, 
and the maintenance of strict safety controls. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.39.2. The Department of Anesthesia shall be responsible for 
all anesthetics administered in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.39.3. In hospitals where there is no Department of Anesthesia, the 
Department of Surgery shall assume the responsibility for establishing 
general policies for the administration of anesthetics. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.39.4. Safety precautions shall be accordance with NFPA Bulletin 56A. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 40 GENERAL SERVICES: DIETARY ORGANIZATION 
<<<PAGE 443>>>
443 
 
 
Rule 41.40.1. The hospital shall have an organized dietary department directed by 
qualified personnel. However, a hospital which has a contract with an 
outside food management company may be found to meet this 
requirement if the company has a therapeutic dietitian who serves, as 
required by scope and complexity of the service, on a full-time, part-
time, or consultant basis to the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.40.2. There shall be written policies and procedures for food storage, 
preparation, and service developed by a qualified dietitian (preferably 
meeting the American Dietetic Association's standards for 
qualification). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.40.3. The number of personnel, such as cooks, bakers, dishwashers, and clerks shall 
be adequate to perform effectively all defined functions. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.40.4. Written job descriptions of all dietary employees shall be available. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.40.5. There shall be procedures to control dietary employees with infectious and 
open lesions. Routine health examinations shall meet local and state codes 
for food service personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.40.6. There shall be an in-service training program for dietary employees 
which includes the proper handling of food and personal grooming. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 41 FACILITIES 
Rule 41.41.1. Written reports of inspections by the Department of Health of action 
taken to comply with recommendations are to be kept on file at the 
hospital with notation made by the hospital. 
<<<PAGE 444>>>
444 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.2. Dry or staple food items shall be stored at least 12 inches off the floor 
in a ventilated room which is not subject to sewage or wastewater 
back-flow, or contamination by condensation, leakage, rodents, or 
vermin. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.3. All perishable foods shall be refrigerated at the appropriate temperature 
and in an orderly and sanitary manner. Each refrigerator shall contain a 
thermometer in good working order. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.4. Foods being displayed or transported shall be protected from contamination. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.5. Dishwashing procedures and techniques shall be developed and carried out 
in compliance with the state and local health codes. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.6. All garbage and kitchen refuse which is not disposed of mechanically 
shall be kept in leak proof non-absorbent containers with close fitting 
covers and be disposed or routinely in a manner that will not permit 
transmission of disease, a nuisance, or a breeding place for flies. All 
garbage containers are to be thoroughly cleaned inside and outside each 
time emptied. No garbage or kitchen refuse may be used as feed for 
swine. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.41.7. Diets. There shall be a systematic record of diets, correlated when 
appropriate, with the medical records. The dietitian shall have available 
an up-to-date manual or regimens for all therapeutic diets, approved 
jointly by the dietitian and medical staff, which is available to dietary 
supervisory personnel. Diets served to patients shall be in compliance 
with these established diet principles. 
<<<PAGE 445>>>
445 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 42 ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY: FIRE CONTROL AND 
INTERNAL DISASTER 
Rule 41.42.1. The hospital shall provide fire protection by the elimination of fire 
hazards the installation of necessary safeguards such as extinguishers, 
sprinkling devices, fire barriers to insure rapid and effective fire control 
and the adoption of written fire control and evacuation plans rehearsed 
at least three times a year by key personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.42.2. Written fire control plans shall contain provisions for prompt reporting of 
all fires extinguishing fires; protection of patients, personnel, and 
guests’ evacuation; training of personnel in use of first aid firefighting 
equipment; and cooperation with firefighting authorities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.42.3. There shall be rigidly enforced written rules and regulations governing 
proper routine methods of handling and storing of flammable and 
explosive agents, particularly in operating rooms and laboratories, and 
governing the provision of oxygen therapy. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.42.4. The hospital shall have: 
 
1. Written evidence of regular inspection and approval by state or 
local fire control agencies. 
 
2. Stairwells kept closed by fire doors or equipped with 
unimpaired automatic closing devices. 
 
3. Fire extinguishers refilled when necessary and kept in condition 
for instant use. There shall be an annual inspection of each fire 
extinguisher which shall include a tag showing the month and year 
of the inspection and the initials of the inspector. 
 
4. Conductive floors with the required equipment and ungrounded 
<<<PAGE 446>>>
446 
 
electrical circuits in areas subject to explosion hazards. 
 
5. Proper routine storage and prompt disposal of trash. 
 
6. "No Smoking" signs prominently displayed where appropriate, 
with rules governing the ban on smoking in designated areas of 
the hospital enforced and obeyed by all personnel. 
 
7. Fire regulations easily available to all personnel and all 
fire codes rigidly observed and carried out. 
 
8. Corridors and exits clear of all obstructions except for 
permanently mounted handrails. 
 
9. Holiday decorations consisting of natural foliage or 
plant material are not permitted. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 43 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP) 
 
Rule 41.43.1. The hospital shall develop and maintain a comprehensive emergency 
preparedness program that includes an emergency plan. The emergency 
plan must be based on a documented, facility-based and community-
based risk assessment utilizing an "all-hazards" approach. The program 
and its plan must be reviewed and updated at least annually by the 
hospital. 
 
1. A hospital subject to 42 CFR Part 482 shall comply with the 
requirements of 42 CFR § 482.15, "Condition of participation: 
Emergency preparedness." 
 
2. A Critical Access Hospital (CAH) subject to 42 CFR Part 485 shall comply 
with the requirements of 42 CFR § 485.625, "Condition of participation: 
Emergency preparedness." 
 
3. Communications and Facility Status Reporting. The hospital shall submit 
facility status reports, including but not limited to, bed availability and 
operational status, in a format and at a frequency determined by the 
Department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 447>>>
447 
 
Subchapter 44 FACILITY FIRE PREPAREDNESS 
 
Rule 41.44.1. Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. 
Employees shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
1. Written Records. Written records of all drills shall be 
maintained, indicating content of and attendance at 
each drill. 
2. A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a 
conspicuous place and kept current. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 45 SANITARY ENVIRONMENT 
 
Rule 41.45.1. The hospital shall provide a sanitary environment to avoid sources and 
transmission of infections. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.2. An infection committee, composed of members of the medical and 
nursing staffs and administration, shall be established and shall be responsible for 
investigating, controlling, and preventing infections in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.3. There shall be written procedures to govern the use of aseptic techniques and 
procedures in all areas of the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.4. To keep infections at a minimum, such procedures and techniques 
shall be regularly reviewed by the infection committee. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.5. There shall be a method of control used in relation to the sterilization 
and water and a written policy requiring sterile supplies to be re-processed at specified 
time periods. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 448>>>
448 
 
 
Rule 41.45.6. Continuing education shall be provided to all hospital personnel on 
the cause, effect, transmission, prevention, and elimination of 
infections. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.7. A continuing process shall be enforced for inspection and reporting 
of any hospital employee with an infection who may be in contact 
with patients, their food or laundry. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.8. Regulated Medical Waste. "Infectious medical wastes" includes solid or 
liquid wastes  which may contain  pathogens with sufficient virulence 
and quantity such 
that exposure to the waste by a susceptible host has been proven to result in 
an infectious disease. For purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes 
shall be considered to be infectious medical wastes: 
 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who have 
Class I and (or) II  diseases that are transmitted by blood and body 
fluid as defined in the rules and regulations governing reportable 
diseases as defined by the Mississippi Department of Health; 
 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen 
cultures collected from medical and pathological laboratories, 
cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research and 
industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of biologicals, 
discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and 
devices used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood 
components; 
 
4. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts, and 
body fluids that are removed during surgery and autopsy; 
 
5. Contaminated carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals 
that were exposed to pathogens in medical research; 
 
6. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur 
<<<PAGE 449>>>
449 
 
pipettes, broken  glass, scalpel blades) which have come into 
contact with infectious agents; 
 
7. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so 
classified by the Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.9. "Medical Waste" means all waste generated in direct patient care or 
in diagnostic or research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically 
repugnant if found in the environment. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.45.10. Medical Waste Management Plan. All generators of infectious medical 
waste and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan 
in accordance with Adopted Standards for the Regulation of Medical 
Waste. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 46 HOUSEKEEPING 
 
Rule 41.46.1. The housekeeping functions of the hospital shall be under the direction 
of a certified executive housekeeper, or other person knowledgeable 
about and capable of maintaining the aseptic conditions required in the 
various departments of the hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.2. There shall be adequate space provided for the storage of housekeeping 
equipment and supplies and for the housekeeper to maintain adequate 
records of the housekeeping operations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.3. Separate janitor’s closets and separate cleaning equipment and supplies shall 
be maintained for the following areas and shall not be used for cleaning in any 
other location: 
 
1. Surgical Suites. 
 
<<<PAGE 450>>>
450 
 
2. Delivery Suites. 
 
 
3. Newborn Nursery. 
 
 
4. Dietary Department 
 
5. Emergency Service Area. 
 
6. Patient Areas. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.4. Additional janitor’s closets, equipment and supplies should be provided 
for laboratories, radiology, offices, locker rooms and other areas of the 
hospital. Housekeeping equipment or supplies used for cleaning in 
isolation or contaminated areas shall not be used in any other area of the 
hospital before it has been properly cleaned and sterilized. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.5. All areas of the hospital, including the building and grounds, shall be 
kept clean and orderly. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.6. There shall be frequent cleaning of floors, walls, woodwork, and windows. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.7. The premises must be kept free of rodent and insect infestations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.46.8. Accumulated waste material and rubbish must be removed at frequent 
intervals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 451>>>
451 
 
Rule 41.46.9. No flammable cleaning agents or other flammable liquids or gases shall 
be stored in any janitor’s closet or other area of the hospital except in a 
properly fire rated, and properly ventilated storage area specifically 
designed for such storage. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 47 LAUNDRY & LINEN 
 
Rule 41.47.1. Laundry and linen service shall be under the direction of a person 
knowledgeable about the capable of maintaining the sanitary requirements of the 
hospital in the care of both clean and soiled linens. This person shall report directly to 
the administrator of the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.47.2. If the hospital maintains its own laundry, it shall have separate areas for: 
 
1. Collection of soiled linens. 
 
2. Washing, drying, and ironing. 
 
 
3. Clean linen storage. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.47.3. The laundry design and operation shall comply with all appropriate 
codes and regulations to assure that it will not be a health or safety hazard to 
hospital patients and personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.47.4. If the hospital uses a laundry not controlled by the hospital, that 
laundry must maintain the sanitary requirements of hospitals regarding the 
processing of its linens and must maintain a satisfactory schedule of pick-up and 
delivery. 
Sanitary practices shall be checked by periodic laboratory tests. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 452>>>
452 
 
 
Rule 41.47.5. Hospitals shall maintain an adequate supply of clean linens at all times. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.47.6. Adequate clean linen storage shall be readily accessible to nurses’ stations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.47.7. Dirty linen storage shall be well ventilated and shall be located convenient to 
the laundry or service entrance of the hospital. The storage of appreciable 
quantities 
of soiled linens is discouraged. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 48 MEDICAL RECORDS – ORGANIZATION 
 
Rule 41.48.1. The hospital shall have a medical record department with 
administrative responsibility for medical records. A medical record 
shall be maintained, in accordance with accepted professional 
principles, for each patient receiving care in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.48.2. Such records shall be kept confidential and only authorized personnel shall 
have access to the records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.48.3. Written consent of the patient or the patient’s legal representative 
shall be presented as authority for release of medical information and 
this release shall become part of the medical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.48.4. Medical records shall not be removed from the hospital environment except 
upon subpoena. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 453>>>
453 
 
 
Rule 41.48.5. Preservation. Records shall be preserved, either in the original or by 
reproduction, for a period of time not less than that set forth in Title 41, 
Chapter 9 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 49 PERSONNEL 
 
Rule 41.49.1. Qualified personnel adequate to supervise and conduct the department shall 
be provided. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.49.2. Preferably a Registered Health Information Administrator or Registered 
Health Information Technician shall head the department. If such a 
professionally qualified person is not in charge of medical records, one 
shall be employed either on a part-time or consultative basis to organize 
the department, train the regular personnel, and make periodic visits to 
the hospital to evaluate the records and the operation of the department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 50 IDENTIFICATION AND FILING 
 
Rule 41.50.1. A system of identification and filing to ensure the prompt location of a 
patient's medical record shall be maintained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.50.2. A master patient index shall be maintained and shall bear at least the full 
name of the patient, the address, the birth date, and the medical record 
number. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.50.3. Filing equipment and space shall be adequate to house the records and 
facilitate retrieval. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 454>>>
454 
 
 
Rule 41.50.4. A unit record should be maintained so that both inpatient and outpatient 
treatment are in one folder. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 51 CENTRALIZATION OF REPORTS 
 
Rule 41.51.1. All clinical information pertaining to a patient's stay shall be centralized in 
the patient's record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.2. The original of all reports originating in the hospital shall be filed in the 
medical records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.3. All reports or records shall be completed and filed within a period 
consistent with good medical practice and not longer than 30 days 
following discharge. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.4. INDEXES - RESERVED 
 
Rule 41.51.5. Records shall be indexed according to disease, operation, and physician 
and shall be kept up to date. For indexing, any recognized system may 
be used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.6. Diagnoses and Operations. shall be expressed in terminology which 
describes the morbid condition both as to site and ethological factors 
or the method or procedure. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.7. Indexing shall be current within six months following discharge of the patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 455>>>
455 
 
Rule 41.51.8. Content. The medical record shall contain sufficient information to justify 
the diagnosis and warrant the treatment and end results. The medical 
record shall contain the following information: Identification date, chief 
complaint, present illness, physician's orders, past history, family history, 
physical examination, provisional diagnosis, clinical laboratory reports, x-
ray reports, consultations, treatment medical and surgical, tissue report, 
progress notes, final diagnosis, discharge summary, autopsy findings. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.51.9. Authorship. Only practitioners authorized by the governing body to 
perform medical histories and physical examinations shall be permitted 
to write or dictate medical histories and physical examinations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
 
Subchapter 52 ENTRIES 
 
Rule 41.52.1. All entries must be legible and complete and must be authenticated and 
dated promptly by the person (identified by name and discipline) 
responsible for ordering, providing, or evaluating the service furnished. 
All orders/entries must be dated, timed, and authenticated promptly by 
the prescribing physician or another physician responsible for the care of 
the patient, even if the order did not originate with him or her. 
Authentication may include signatures, written initials, or computer 
entry. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.52.2. Entries in the medical records may be made only by individuals as 
specified in hospital and medical staff policies. All entries in the 
medical record must be dated and authenticated, and a method 
established to identify the authors of entries. Such identification may 
include written signatures initials or computer key. When rubber stamp 
signatures are authorized, the individual whose signature the stamp 
represents shall place in the administrative offices of the hospital, a 
signed statement to the effect that he/she is the only one who has the 
stamp and uses it. There shall be no delegation to another individual. A 
list of computer codes and written signatures must be readily available 
and maintained under adequate safeguards. There shall be sanctions 
established for improper or unauthorized use of stamp and computer 
key signatures. 
<<<PAGE 456>>>
456 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.52.3. A single signature on the face sheet of the record shall not suffice to 
authenticate the entire record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.52.4. In hospitals with house staff, the attending physician shall countersign at 
least the history and physical examination and summary written by the 
house staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 53 PROMPTNESS OF RECORD COMPLETION 
 
Rule 41.53.1. Current records shall be completed within 24 to 48 hours following 
admission. 
Verbal orders shall be authenticated in accordance with facility policy and, in the absence 
of a facility policy, no later than 30 days after discharge. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.53.2. Records of patients discharged shall be completed within 30 days 
following discharge. The staff regulations of the hospital shall provide for 
the suspension or termination of staff membership and/or clinical privileges 
of practitioners who are persistently delinquent in completing records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.53.3. If a patient is readmitted within a month for the same condition, reference to 
the previous history with an interval note and physical examination shall 
suffice. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.53.4. Medical Library. The medical library shall have modern textbooks and current 
periodicals relative to the clinical services offered. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 457>>>
457 
 
 
Subchapter 54 ANCILLARY SERVICES: DENTAL, REHABILITATION, 
PHYSICAL THERAPY, OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY & 
SPEECHPATHOLOGY 
 
Rule 41.54.1. General. Dental and rehabilitation departments are optional, but if these 
optional services are present, there shall be effective policies and 
procedures relating to the staff and the functions of the services in order 
to assure the health and safety of the patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 55 DEPARTMENT OF DENTISTRY AND DENTAL STAFF 
 
Rule 41.55.1. According to the procedure established for the appointment of the 
medical staff, one or more dentists may be appointed to the dental staff. 
If the dental service is organized, its organization shall be comparable to 
that of other services or departments. Whether or not the dental service 
is organized as a department, the following requirements shall be met: 
 
1. Members of the dental staff shall be qualified legally, 
professionally, and ethically for the positions to which they are 
appointed. 
 
2. Patients admitted for  dental services  shall be admitted by  the 
dentist either to  the department of dentistry, or, if there is no 
department, to an organized clinical service. 
 
3. There shall be a physician in attendance who is responsible for the 
medical care of the patient throughout the hospital stay. A medical 
survey shall be done and recorded by a member of the medical 
staff before dental surgery is performed. A medical survey may be 
done by an oral surgeon as outlined in Rule 41.7.3. 
 
4. There shall be specific bylaws concerning the  dental staff 
written as combined  medical - dental staff bylaws or 
separate or adjunct dental bylaws. 
 
5. The staff bylaws and rules and regulations shall specifically 
delineate the rights and privileges of the dentists. 
 
6. Complete records, both medical and dental, shall be required 
<<<PAGE 458>>>
458 
 
on each dental patient and shall be a part of the hospital 
records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 56 REHABILITATION, PHYSICAL THERAPY, OCCUPATIONAL 
THERAPY, AND SPEECH PATHOLOGY DEPARTMENTS 
Rule 41.56.1. These services may be provided. If provided, they shall have effective 
policies and procedures relating to the organization and functions of 
the services and be staffed by qualified therapists. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.56.2. The department head shall have the necessary knowledge, experience, 
and capabilities to properly supervise and administer the department. A 
rehabilitation department head shall be a psychiatrist or other physician 
with pertinent experience. If separate therapy departments are 
maintained, the department head shall be a qualified therapist (as is 
appropriate) or a physician with pertinent experience. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.56.3. If physical therapy services are offered, the services shall be given by or 
under the supervision of a qualified physical therapist. A qualified 
physical therapist shall be a graduate of a program in physical therapy 
approved by the Council on Medical Education of the American 
Medical Association (in collaboration with the American Physical 
Therapy Association) or its equivalent and hold a current Mississippi 
license. Additional properly trained and supervised personnel shall be 
sufficient to meet the needs of the department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.56.4. If occupational therapy services are offered, the services shall be given 
by or under the supervision of a professional licensed occupational 
therapist and hold a current Mississippi license. Other properly trained 
and supervised personnel, such as licensed occupational therapy 
assistants and aides, shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the 
department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 459>>>
459 
 
Rule 41.56.5. If speech pathology services are offered, the service shall be given by a 
qualified speech pathologist and hold a current Mississippi license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.56.6. Facilities and equipment for physical and occupational therapy shall be 
adequate to meet the needs of the services and shall be in good 
condition. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.56.7. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech pathology shall be given in 
accordance with a physician's orders. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.56.8. Complete records shall be maintained for each patient receiving therapy 
services and are to include evaluations and clinical notes. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 57 LABORATORY - ORGANIZATION 
 
Rule 41.57.1. The hospital shall have a well-organized, adequately supervised and 
staffed clinical laboratory with the necessary space, facilities, and 
equipment to perform those services commensurate with the hospital's 
needs for its patients. 
Anatomical pathology services and transfusion services shall be available 
either in the hospital or by arrangement with other facilities. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.57.2. All equipment shall be in good working order, routinely quality controlled, 
and precise in terms of calibration. The laboratory shall be in compliance 
with all applicable federal requirements for clinical laboratories. (Clinical 
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 at 42 CFR Part 493) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 58 CLINICAL LABORATORY EXAMINATIONS 
 
<<<PAGE 460>>>
460 
 
Rule 41.58.1. Provision shall be made to carry out adequate clinical laboratory 
examinations including chemistry, microbiology, hematology, 
coagulation, general immunology, and clinical microscopy either in the 
hospital or an approved outside laboratory. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.58.2. In the case of work performed by an outside laboratory, the original 
report from such laboratory shall be contained in the medical record. 
For results received directly from the testing laboratory’s computer, 
there may not be a paper copy, which is acceptable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 59 AVAILABILITY OF FACILITIES AND SERVICES 
 
Rule 41.59.1. Adequate provision shall be made for assuring the availability of 
emergency laboratory services, either in the hospital or under arrangements 
with an approved outside laboratory. Such services shall be available 24 
hours a day, seven days a week, including holidays. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.59.2. Where services are provided by an outside laboratory, the conditions, 
procedures, and availability of services offered shall be in writing and 
available in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 60 PERSONNEL 
 
Rule 41.60.1. Services shall be under the technical supervision of a physician with training 
and experience in clinical laboratory services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.60.2. All personnel in the laboratory must meet the qualification 
and training requirements specified in the federal Clinical 
Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 461>>>
461 
 
Subchapter 61 LABORATORY REPORT 
 
Rule 41.61.1. Reports shall be filed with the patient’s medical record and duplicate copies kept in the 
department. For data filed electronically, it is not necessary to retain paper copies in the 
laboratory. The laboratory must be able to identify the analyst and date completed for 
all procedures and tests. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.61.2. The laboratory director shall be responsible for the laboratory report. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.61.3. There shall be a procedure for assuring that all tests are ordered by a physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 62 PATHOLOGIST SERVICES 
 
Rule 41.62.1. Services shall be under the direct supervision of a pathologist on a full-
time, regular part-time, or regular consultative basis. If the latter 
pertains, the hospital shall provide for, as a minimum, quarterly 
consultative visits by a pathologist. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.62.2. The pathologist should participate in staff, departmental and clinical-
pathologic conferences. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.62.3. The pathologist shall be responsible for assuring the qualifications of 
his staff meet CLIA’88 requirements. The pathologist must provide 
for in-service and continuing education for the staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 63 TISSUE EXAMINATIONS 
 
Rule 41.63.1. All tissues removed during surgery, shall be examined. The extent of 
<<<PAGE 462>>>
462 
 
examination shall be determined by the pathology department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.63.2. All tissues removed from patients during surgery shall be macroscopically, and 
if necessary, microscopically examined by the pathologist. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.63.3. A list of tissues which routinely require microscopic examination shall 
be developed in writing by the pathologist or designated physician with 
the approval of the medical staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.63.4. A tissue file shall be maintained in the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.63.5. In the absence of a pathologist or suitable physician substituted, there 
shall be an established plan for sending to a pathologist outside the 
hospital all tissues requiring examination. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 64 REPORTS OF TISSUE EXAMINATION 
 
Rule 41.64.1. Signed reports of tissue examinations shall be filed within the patient’s 
medical record and duplicate copies kept in the department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.64.2. All reports of macro and microscopic examinations performed shall be 
signed by the pathologist or designated physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.64.3. Provision shall be made for the prompt filing of examination results in 
the patient’s medical record and notification of the physician 
requesting the examination. 
 
<<<PAGE 463>>>
463 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.64.4. Duplicate copies of the examination reports shall be filed in the laboratory 
in a manner which permits ready identification and accessibility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 65 BLOOD AND BLOOD PRODUCTS 
 
Rule 41.65.1. Facilities for procurement, safekeeping and transfusion of blood products 
shall be provided or readily available consistent with the size and scope 
of operation of the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.2. The hospital shall maintain, as a minimum, proper blood storage facilities 
under adequate control and supervision of the pathologist or other authorized 
physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.3. For emergency situations the hospital shall maintain at least a 
minimum blood supply in the hospital at all times or be able to 
obtain blood quickly from community blood banks or institutions. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.4. Where the hospital depends on outside blood banks, there shall be an 
agreement governing the procurement, transfer and availability of 
blood which is reviewed and approved by the medical staff, 
administration, and governing body. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.5. There shall be provision for prompt blood typing and compatibility 
testing, and for laboratory investigation of transfusion reactions, either 
through the hospital or by arrangement with others on a continuous 
basis, under the supervision of a physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.6. Blood storage facilities in the hospital shall have an adequate temperature 
<<<PAGE 464>>>
464 
 
alarm system that is regularly inspected. The alarm system must be audible 
and monitor proper blood storage temperature over a 24-hour period. If 
blood is stored or maintained for transfusion outside of a monitored 
refrigerator, the laboratory must ensure and document that the storage 
conditions (including temperature) are appropriate to prevent deterioration 
of the blood or blood product. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.7. Records shall be kept on file indicating the receipt and disposition of all 
blood products that are received into the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.8. Samples of each unit of blood transfused at the hospital shall be 
retained according to the instructions of the committee indicated in 
Rule 41.65.9 for further retesting in the event of reactions. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.65.9. A committee of the medical staff or its equivalent shall review all 
transfusions of blood or blood products and make recommendations 
concerning policies governing such practices. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.65.10. The review committee shall investigate all transfusion reactions 
occurring in the hospital and make recommendations to the medical 
staff regarding improvements in transfusion procedures. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 66 PHARMACY OR DRUG ROOM ORGANIZATION 
 
Rule 41.66.1. The hospital shall have a pharmacy directed by a registered pharmacist, 
or a drug room under competent supervision. The pharmacy or drug 
room shall be administered in accordance with accepted professional 
principles. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.66.2. Provision shall be made for emergency pharmaceutical services. 
<<<PAGE 465>>>
465 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.66.3. If the hospital does not have a staff pharmacist, a consulting pharmacist 
shall have overall responsibility for control and distribution of drugs and a 
designated individual or individuals shall have responsibility for day-to-
day operation of the pharmacy. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.66.4. Outdated, mislabeled, or otherwise unusable drugs and biologicals shall not be 
available for patient use. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 67 RECORDS 
 
Rule 41.67.1. Records shall be kept of the transactions of the pharmacy (or drug room) 
and correlated with other hospital records where indicated. Such special 
records shall be kept as required by law. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.67.2. The pharmacy shall establish and maintain a satisfactory system of records 
and accountability in accordance with the policies of the hospital for 
maintaining adequate control over the requisitioning and dispensing of all 
drugs and pharmaceutical supplies. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.67.3. A record of the stock on hand and of the dispensing of all narcotic drugs 
shall be maintained in such a manner that the disposition of any particular 
item may be readily traced. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.67.4. Records for prescription drugs dispensed to each patient (inpatients and 
outpatients) shall be maintained which contain the full name of the 
patient and the prescribing physician, the prescription number, the 
name, and strength of the drug, 
the date of issue, the expiration date for all time-dated medications, the lot and control 
<<<PAGE 466>>>
466 
 
number of the drug, and the name of the manufacturer (or trademark) 
dispensed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.67.5. The label of each individual prescription medication container shall bear 
the lot and control number of the drug, the name of the manufacturer (or 
trademark) and, unless the physician directs otherwise, the name of the 
medication dispensed. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 68 CONTROL OF TOXIC OR DANGEROUS DRUGS 
 
Rule 41.68.1. Policies shall be established to control the administration of toxic or 
dangerous drugs with specific reference to the duration of the order 
and the dosage. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.68.2. The medical staff shall establish a written policy that all toxic or dangerous 
medications, not specifically prescribed as to time or number of doses, will 
be automatically stopped after a reasonable time limit set by the staff. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.68.3. The classification ordinarily thought of as toxic, dangerous or abuse 
drugs shall be narcotics sedatives, anticoagulants, antibiotics, 
oxytocic and cortisone products, antineoplastic agents and shall 
include other categories so established by federal, state, or local laws. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.68.4. Drugs to be Dispensed. Therapeutic ingredients of medications 
dispensed shall be those included (or approved for inclusion) in the 
United States Pharmacopoeia, National Formulary, United State 
Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia, New Drugs, or Accepted Dental 
Premedies (except for any drugs unfavorably evaluated therein), or those 
approved for use by the pharmacy and drug therapeutics committee. 
There shall be available a formulary or list of drugs accepted for use in the hospital 
which is developed and amended at regular intervals by the pharmacy 
<<<PAGE 467>>>
467 
 
and therapeutics committee (or equivalent committee) with the 
cooperation of the pharmacist (consulting or otherwise) and the 
administration. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 69 REGULATION CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN 
ANESTHETIZING AREAS 
 
Rule 41.69.1. Dispensing Controlled Substances. All controlled substances shall be 
dispensed to the responsible person (Supervisor, CRNA, 
Anesthesiologist, etc.) designated to handle controlled substances in the 
operating room by a Registered Pharmacist in the hospital. When the 
controlled substance is dispensed, the following information shall be 
recorded into the controlled substance (proof-of-use) record. 
 
1. Signature of pharmacist dispensing the controlled substance. 
 
2. Signature of designated licensed person receiving the controlled 
substance. 
 
 
3. The date and time-controlled substance is dispensed. 
 
 
4. The name, the strength, and quantity of controlled substance dispensed. 
 
 
5. The serial number assigned to that particular record, which 
corresponds to same number recorded in the pharmacy’s 
dispensing record. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.69.2. Security/Storage of Controlled Substances. When not in use, all 
controlled substances shall be maintained in a securely locked, 
substantially constructed cabinet or area. All controlled substance 
storage cabinets shall be permanently affixed. Controlled substances 
removed from the controlled substance cabinet shall not be left 
unattended. 
 
<<<PAGE 468>>>
468 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.69.3. Controlled Substance Administration Accountability. The 
administration of all controlled substances to patients shall be carefully 
recorded into the anesthesia record. The following information shall be 
transferred from the anesthesia record to the controlled substance record 
by the administering practitioner during the shift in which the 
controlled substance was administered. 
 
1. The patient’s name. 
 
2. The name of the controlled substance and the dosage administered. 
 
 
3. The date and time the controlled substance is administered. 
 
 
4. The signature of the practitioner administering the controlled substance. 
 
 
5. The wastage of any controlled substance. 
 
 
6. The balance of controlled substances remaining after the 
administration of any quantity of the controlled substance. 
 
7. Day-ending or shift-evening verification of count of 
balances of controlled substances remaining and 
controlling substances administered shall be 
accomplished by two (2) designated licensed persons 
whose signatures shall be affixed to a permanent 
record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.69.4. Waste of Controlled Substances 
 
1. All partially used quantities of controlled substances shall be 
wasted at the end of each case by the practitioner, in the presence 
of a licensed person. The quantity, expressed in milligrams, shall 
be recorded by the wasting practitioner into the anesthesia record 
and into the controlled substance record followed by his or her 
<<<PAGE 469>>>
469 
 
signature. The licensed person witnessing this wastage of 
controlled substances shall co-sign the controlled substance 
record. 
 
2. All unused and unopened quantities of controlled substances 
which have been removed from the controlled substance cabinet 
shall be returned to the cabinet by the practitioner at the end of 
each shift. 
 
 
3. Any return of controlled substances to the pharmacy in the 
hospital must be documented by a registered pharmacist 
responsible for controlled substance handing in the hospital. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.69.5. Verification of Controlled Substances Administration. The hospital shall 
implement procedures whereby, on a periodic basis, a registered 
pharmacist shall reconcile quantities of controlled substances dispensed 
in the hospital to the anesthetizing area against the controlled substance 
record in said area. Any discrepancies shall be reported to the Director 
of Nursing and to the Chief Executive Officer of the hospital. Upon 
completion, all controlled substance records shall be returned from the 
anesthetizing area to the hospital’s pharmacy by the designated 
responsible person in the anesthetizing area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 70 RADIOLOGY 
 
Rule 41.70.1. Radiological Services. The hospital shall maintain or have available 
radiological services according to needs of the hospital, either in the 
hospital building proper or in an adjacent clinic or medical facility that 
is readily accessible to the hospital patients, physicians, and personnel. 
If therapeutic x-ray services are also provided, they, as well as the 
diagnostic services, shall meet professionally approved standards for 
safety and personnel qualifications. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 71 HAZARDS TO PATIENTS AND PERSONNEL 
<<<PAGE 470>>>
470 
 
 
Rule 41.71.1. The radiology department shall be free of hazards to patients and personnel. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.71.2. Proper safety precautions shall be maintained against fire and explosion 
hazards, electrical hazards, and radiation hazards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.71.3. Periodic inspection shall be made by Department of Health or a 
radiation physicist, and hazards so identified shall be promptly 
corrected. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.71.4. Radiation workers shall be checked periodically for amount of radiation 
exposure by the use of exposure meters or badge tests. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.71.5. With fluoroscopes, attention shall be paid to modern safety design and 
operating procedures; records shall be maintained of the output of all 
fluoroscopes. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.71.6. Regulations based on medical staff recommendations shall be established as 
to the administration of the application and removal of radium element, its 
disintegration products, and other radioactive isotopes. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 72 PERSONNEL 
 
Rule 41.72.1. Personnel adequate to supervise and conduct the services shall be 
provided, and the interpretation of radiological examinations shall be 
made by physicians competent in the field. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 471>>>
471 
 
 
Rule 41.72.2. The hospital shall have a qualified radiologist, either full-time or part-
time, on a consulting basis, both to give direction to the department and 
to interpret films that require specialized knowledge for accurate 
reading. If the hospital is small and a radiologist cannot come to the 
hospital regularly, selected x-ray films shall be sent to a radiologist for 
interpretation. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
 
Rule 41.72.3. If the activities of the radiology department extend to radiotherapy, the 
physician in charge shall be appropriately qualified. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.72.4. The amount of qualified radiologist's and technologist's time shall be 
sufficient to meet the hospital's requirement. A technologist shall be on 
duty or on call at all times. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.72.5. The use of all x-ray apparatus shall be limited to personnel designated as 
qualified by the radiologist or by an appropriately constituted 
committee of the medical staff. The same limitation shall apply to 
personnel applying and removing radium element, its disintegration 
products, and radioactive isotopes. The use of fluoroscopes shall be 
limited to physicians or technologist under the direction of a physician. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 73 SIGNED REPORTS 
 
Rule 41.73.1. Signed reports shall be filed with the patient's medical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.73.2. Requests by the attending physician for x-ray examination shall contain a 
concise statement of reason for the examination. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
<<<PAGE 472>>>
472 
 
Rule 41.73.3. Reports of interpretations shall be written or dictated and signed by 
the radiologist. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.73.4. X-ray reports and roentgenographies shall be preserved according to statute. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 74 SOCIAL WORK 
 
Rule 41.74.1. Hospitals without an organized Social Work Department may provide 
this service. If such department is provided, there shall be effective 
policies and procedures relating to the staff and the functions of the 
service. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.74.2. If the facility offers social services, a member of the staff of the 
facility shall be responsible for social services. If the designated 
person is not a qualified social worker, the facility has a written 
agreement with a qualified social worker, or recognized social agency 
for consultation and assistance on a regularly scheduled basis. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.74.3. A qualified social worker is an individual who is currently licensed by the 
State of Mississippi and has one (1) year of experience in a health care 
setting. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 75 UTILIZATION REVIEW PLAN 
 
Rule 41.75.1. The hospital must have in effect a utilization review (UR) plan that 
provides for review of services furnished by the institution and by 
members of the medical staff to patients. 
 
1. The UR plan must provide for review for patients with 
respect to the medical necessity of: 
 
<<<PAGE 473>>>
473 
 
A. Admissions to the institution; 
 
B. The duration of stays; and 
 
C. Professional services furnished including drugs and biologicals. 
 
2. Review of admissions may be performed before, at, or after hospital 
admission. 
 
3. Reviews may be conducted on a sample basis. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 76 UTILIZATION REVIEW COMMITTEE 
 
Rule 41.76.1. A UR committee consisting of two or more practitioners must carry 
out the UR function. At least two of the members of the committee 
must be Doctor of Medicine or osteopathy. The other members may 
be any of the other types of practitioners. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.76.2. The committee must review professional services provided to 
determine medical necessity and to promote the most efficient use of 
available health facilities and services. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 77 QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT 
(QAPI PROGRAM) 
 
Rule 41.77.1. The hospital must develop, implement, and maintain an effective, 
ongoing, hospital-wide, data-driven quality assessment and 
performance improvement program. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.77.2. The hospital’s governing body must ensure that the program reflects the 
complexity of the hospital’s organization and services; involves all 
hospital departments and services (including those services furnished 
<<<PAGE 474>>>
474 
 
under contract or arrangement); and focuses on indicators related to 
improved health outcomes and the prevention and reduction of medical 
errors. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.77.3. The hospital must maintain and demonstrate evidence of its QAPI 
program for review by the Department. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 78 QAPI PROGRAM SCOPE 
 
Rule 41.78.1. The program must include, but not be limited to, an ongoing program that 
shows measurable improvement in indicators for which there is evidence that it will 
improve health outcomes and will identify and reduce medical errors. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.78.2. The hospital must measure, analyze, and track quality indicators, 
including adverse patient events, and other aspects of performance that assess processes 
of care, hospital service and operations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 79 QAPI PROGRAM DATA 
 
Rule 41.79.1. The hospital must use the data collected to: 
 
1. Monitor the effectiveness and safety of services and quality of care; and 
 
2. to identify opportunities for improvement and changes that will lead to 
improvement. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.79.2. The frequency and detail of data collection must be specified by the 
hospital’s governing body. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 475>>>
475 
 
Subchapter 80 QAPI PROGRAM ACTIVITIES 
 
Rule 41.80.1. The hospital must set priorities for its performance improvement activities 
that: 
 
1. Focus on high-risk, high-volume, or problem-prone areas; 
 
2. Consider the incidence, prevalence, and severity of problems in those 
areas; 
 
3. Affect health outcomes and quality of care; and 
 
4. Affect patient safety. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.80.2. Performance improvement activities must track medical errors and 
adverse patient events, analyze their causes, and implement preventive 
actions and mechanisms that include feedback and learning throughout 
the hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.80.3. The hospital must take actions aimed at performance improvement 
and, after implementing those actions, the hospital must measure 
its success, and track performance to ensure that improvements are 
sustained. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 81 PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS 
 
Rule 41.81.1. As part of its quality assessment and performance improvement 
program, the hospital must conduct performance improvement 
projects. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.81.2. The number and scope of distinct improvement projects conducted 
<<<PAGE 476>>>
476 
 
annually must be proportional to the scope and complexity of the 
hospital’s services and operations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.81.3. The hospital must document what quality improvement projects are 
being conducted, the reasons for conducting these projects, and the 
measurable progress achieved on these projects. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 82 TRAUMA REGISTRY 
 
Rule 41.82.1. All licensed hospitals which have organized emergency services or 
departments must participate in the statewide trauma registry for the 
purpose of supporting peer review and performance improvement 
activities at the local, regional and state levels. Since this data relates 
to specific trauma patients and is used to evaluate and improve the 
quality of health care services, this data is confidential and will be 
governed by Miss. Code Ann. §41-59-77 (as amended). Compliance 
with the above will be evidenced by: 
 
1. Documentation of utilization of the Trauma Registry 
data in the trauma performance improvement process 
and 
2. Timely submission of Trauma Registry Data to the Bureau 
of EMS at least monthly. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.82.2. Data Submission Requirements: Patients to be included in the trauma 
registry are defined in “Mississippi Trauma Care System: Rules and 
Regulations (as amended).” 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Subchapter 83 FREESTANDING EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS 
<<<PAGE 477>>>
477 
 
 
Rule 41.83.1. Adoption of Regulations and Minimum Standards. By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Mississippi Code Annotated Sections 41-75-
1 through 41-75- 13, or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi 
Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the following 
regulations and standards for Freestanding Emergency Departments 
(FED). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.2 Compliance with Rules, Regulations and Standards. The FED shall: 
 
1. Comply with all applicable Medicare provider-based regulations. 
The FED shall comply with all regulations that apply to clinical 
services and staffing for emergency departments, as set forth in the 
MSDH Minimum Standards of Operation for Mississippi 
Hospitals. 
 
2.  Provide data to their Trauma Region and the department’s Trauma 
Registry through participation in the Mississippi Trauma Care 
System (MTS). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.3 Definitions. The definitions specific to the FED are: 
 
1. Freestanding Emergency Room. “Freestanding Emergency 
Room” is a facility open twenty-four hours a day for the 
treatment of urgent and emergent medical conditions which is 
not located on a hospital campus. In order to eligible for 
licensure under this chapter, the freestanding emergency room 
shall be located at least fifteen (15) miles from the nearest hospital-
based emergency room in any rural community where the federal 
Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services (CMS) had previously 
designated a rural hospital as a critical access hospital and that 
designation has been revoked. 
 
2. Licensing Agency. “Licensing agency” means the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 478>>>
478 
 
Rule 41.83.4 License. No person or governmental unit shall establish, conduct, or 
maintain a Freestanding Emergency Department in this state without 
a license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.5 Application for License. An application for a license shall be made to 
the licensing agency upon forms provided by the licensing agency and 
shall contain such information as the licensing agency reasonably 
requires. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.6 Licensure and User Fees. Such fees shall be paid to the licensing 
agency by electronic payment, business check, certified check, or 
money order. A license shall not be issued to any FED until such fee is 
received by the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.7 User Fee. A “user fee” shall be assessed by the licensing agency for the 
purpose of the required reviewing and inspections of the proposal of 
any FED in which there are additions, renovations, modernizations, 
expansion, alterations, conversions, modifications, or replacement of 
the entire facility involved in the proposal. This fee includes the 
reviewing of architectural plans in all required steps. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.8 Renewal of License. A license, unless suspended or revoked, shall be 
renewable annually by submitting an application, paying an annual fee 
and submitting such reports as required by the licensing agency, 
including annual information reports. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.9 Issuance of License. Each license shall be issued only for the 
premises and persons or governmental units names in the 
application and shall not be transferable or assignable except with 
the written approval of the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 479>>>
479 
 
 
Rule 41.83.10 Denial or Revocation of a License. The licensing agency, after notice 
and opportunity for hearing to the applicant or licensee, is authorized 
to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that 
there has been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements 
established in these regulations and standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.11 Ownership. There shall be full disclosure of FED ownership and control. 
Annually, in its application for renewal of an FED License, the facility shall report 
the name and address of the owner and the name and address of the 
individual(s) responsible for operation of the FED. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.12 Change of Ownership. When change of ownership of a FED is 
contemplated, the FED shall notify the licensing agency, in writing, at 
least 30 days prior to the proposed date of change of ownership, giving 
the name and address of the proposed new owner and all other 
documents as required by the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.13 Governing Authority. The FED shall have an organized governing body, or 
designated person(s): 
 
1. That has overall responsibility for the conduct of the FED in a 
manner consistent with the objective of making available high 
quality patient care. 
 
2. That shall be the authority in the FED, responsible for the 
management of the FED and appointment of the medical staff. 
 
3. That shall adopt bylaws in accordance with legal requirements 
and with its community responsibility, identifying the purposes 
of the FED and the means of fulfilling them, 
 
4. That shall take all reasonable steps to comply with all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. 
 
<<<PAGE 480>>>
480 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.14. Staffing and Treatment. The FED must possess the staff and 
resources necessary to evaluate all individuals presenting to the 
emergency department. The FED must follow all requirements of 
EMTALA in regard to assuring the medical evaluation, stabilization 
and transfer of a patient found to have an emergency condition. 
Because of the unscheduled and episodic nature of health emergencies 
and acute illness, the FED must be staffed with experienced American 
Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) or American Osteopathic 
Association (AOA) board certified or board eligible physicians, 
nursing and ancillary personnel who must be available 24 hours a day. 
The FED will also provide treatment for individuals whose health 
needs are not of an emergent nature, but for whom the FED may be 
the only accessible or timely entry point into the broader health care 
system. 
 
1. Each FED shall have patient transfer agreements with an EMS 
service and with an acute care or trauma hospital with the 
capability of handling such emergencies and to assure 
provisions for patient admissions, continued emergency, and 
diagnostic services beyond the capability of the FED, and the 
safe emergency transport of the patient, when needed. 
 
2. As stated by the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP): 
 
A. Emergency medical care must be available to all members of the 
public. 
 
B. Access to appropriate emergency medical and nursing 
care must be unrestricted. 
 
C. A smooth continuum should exist among pre-hospital providers, 
emergency department (ED) providers, and providers of 
definitive follow- up care. 
 
D. Evaluation, management, and treatment of patient must be 
appropriate and expedient. 
 
E. Resources should exist in the ED to accommodate each patient 
from the time of arrival through evaluation, medical decision 
making, treatment and disposition. 
 
<<<PAGE 481>>>
481 
 
F. FEDs should have policies and plans to provide effective 
administration, staffing, facility design, equipment, 
medication, and ancillary services. 
 
G. The emergency physician, emergency nurse, and additional 
medical team members must establish effective working 
relationships with other health care providers and entities with 
whom they must interact. These include emergency medical 
services (EMS) providers, ancillary hospital personnel, other 
physicians, and other health care and social services resources. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 41.83.15 Required Policies. The FED Emergency Department Policy Sections 
shall include: 
 
1. Resources and Planning 
 
A. Necessary Elements 
 
i. Administration 
 
ii. Staffing 
 
iii. Facility 
 
iv. Equipment and Supplies 
 
v. Pharmacologic/Therapeutic Drugs and Agents 
 
vi. Safety 
 
vii. Ancillary Services 
 
viii. Transfer policies and procedures for critical patients 
 
ix. Electronic Medical Record 
 
x. Relationships and Responsibilities 
 
<<<PAGE 482>>>
482 
 
2. Core Measures 
 
A. Measure Groups 
 
i. Median Time from FED Arrival to ED Departure for 
Discharged Patients 
 
ii. Median Time from FED Arrival to Decision to Transfer 
 
iii. Median Time from Decision to Transfer to arrival at receiving 
facility 
 
iv. Total lengths of stay and door-to-doctor times 
 
B. Quality/Safety Metrics 
 
i. FED will be responsible for reporting all categories required 
 
ii. Case analysis of EMS patient outliers. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 41.83.16 FED Equipment, Instruments, and Supplies. The equipment, instruments, 
and supplies listed below are required in the FED and each of the items 
should be located in or immediately available to the area noted. This list 
does not include routine medical/surgical supplies such as adhesive 
bandages, gauze pads, and suture material, nor does it include routine 
office items such as paper, desks, paper clips, and chairs. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.17. Entire FED Department shall include: 
 
1. Central station monitoring capability 
 
2. Physiological monitors 
 
3. Blood flow detectors 
 
4. Defibrillator with monitor and battery 
<<<PAGE 483>>>
483 
 
 
5. Thermometers 
 
6. Pulse oximetry 
 
7. Nurse-call system for patient use 
 
8. Portable suction regulator 
 
9. Infusion pumps to include blood pumps 
 
10. IV poles 
 
11. Bag-valve-mask respiratory and adult and pediatric size mask 
 
12. Portable oxygen tanks 
 
13. Blood/fluid warmer and tubing 
 
14. Nasogastric suction supplies 
 
15. Nebulizer 
 
16. Gastric lavage supplies, including large-lumen tubes and bite blocks 
 
17. Urinary catheters, including straight catheters, Foley 
catheters, Coude catheters, filiforms and followers, and 
appropriate collection equipment 
 
18. Intraosseous needles 
 
19. Lumbar puncture sets (adult and pediatric) 
20. Blanket warmer 
 
21. Tonometer 
 
22. Slit lamp 
 
<<<PAGE 484>>>
484 
 
23. Wheelchairs 
 
24. Medication dispensing system with locking capabilities 
 
25. Separately wrapped instruments (specifics will vary by department) 
 
26. Availability of light microscopy for emergency procedures 
 
27. Weight scales (adult and infant) 
 
28. Tape measure 
 
29. Ear irrigation and cerumen removal equipment 
 
30. Vascular Doppler 
 
31. Anoscope 
 
32. Adult and Pediatric "code" cart 
 
33. Suture or minor surgical procedure sets (generic) 
 
34. Portable sonogram equipment 
 
35. EKG machine 
 
36. Point of care testing 
 
37. X-ray view box and hot light 
 
38. Film boxes for holding x-rays 
 
39. Chart Rack 
 
40. Computer system 
 
41. Internet capabilities 
 
<<<PAGE 485>>>
485 
 
42. Patient tracking system 
 
43. Radio or other device for communication with ambulances 
 
44. Patient discharge instruction system 
<<<PAGE 486>>>
486 
 
45. Patient registration system/ Information services 
 
46. Intradepartmental staff communication system- pagers, mobile phones 
 
47. ED charting system for physician, nursing, and 
attending physician documentation 
equipment 
 
48. Reference materials including toxicology resource information 
 
49. Personal protective equipment- gloves, eye goggles, face mask, 
gowns, head, and foot covers 
 
50. Linen (pillows, towels, wash cloths, gowns, blankets) 
 
51. Patient belongings or clothing bag 
 
52. Security needs -including restraints and wand-type or free-standing 
metal 
 
53. detectors as indicated 
 
54. Equipment for adequate housekeeping 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.18. FED General Examination Rooms shall include: 
 
1. Examination tables or stretchers appropriate to the area. 
 
2. For any area in which seriously ill patients are managed, a 
stretcher with capability for changes in position, attached IV 
poles, and a holder for portable oxygen tank should be used. 
 
3. Pelvic tables for GYN examinations. 
 
4. Step stool 
 
5. Chair/stool for emergency staff 
<<<PAGE 487>>>
487 
 
 
6. Seating for family members or visitors 
 
7. Adequate lighting, including procedure lights as indicated 
 
8. Cabinets 
 
9. Adequate sinks for handwashing, including dispensers for 
germicidal soap and paper towels. 
<<<PAGE 488>>>
488 
   
10. Wall mounted oxygen supplies and equipment, including nasal 
cannulas, facemasks, and venturi masks. 
 
11. Wall mounted suction capability, including both tracheal 
cannulas and larger cannulas. 
 
12. Wall-mounted or portable otoscope/ophthalmoscope 
 
13. Sphygmomanometer/stethoscope 
 
14. Oral and nasal airways 
 
15. Biohazard-disposal receptacles, including for sharps 
 
16. Garbage receptacles for non-contaminated materials 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.19. FED Resuscitation Room. All items listed for general examination rooms plus: 
 
1. Adult and Pediatric "code cart" to include appropriate medication charts 
 
2. Capability for direct communication with nursing station, preferably 
hands free 
 
3. Radiography equipment 
 
4. Radiographic view boxes and hot light 
 
5. Airways needs 
 
A. Big-valve-mask respirator (adult, pediatric, 
and infant) Cricothyroidotomy instruments 
and supplies 
 
B. Endotracheal tubes, size 2.5 to 8.5 mm 
 
C. Fiberoptic laryngoscope 
 
<<<PAGE 489>>>
 
489 
  
D. Laryngoscopes, straight and curved blades and stylets 
 
E. Laryngoscope mirror and supplies 
 
F. Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA) 
 
G. Oral and nasal airways 
 
H. Tracheostomy instrument and supplies 
 
6. Breathing 
A. BiPAP Ventilation System 
 
B. Closed-chest drainage device 
 
C. Chest tube instruments and supplies 
 
D. Emergency thoracotomy instruments and supplies 
 
E. End-tidal C02 monitor18 
 
F. Nebulizer 
 
G. Peak flow meter 
 
H. Pulse oximetry 
 
I. Volume cycle ventilator 
 
7. Circulation 
 
A. Automatic physiological monitor, noninvasive 
 
B. Blood/fluid infusion pumps and tubing 
 
C. Blood/fluid warmers 
 
D. Cardiac compression board 
<<<PAGE 490>>>
 
490 
  
 
E. Central venous catheter setups/kits 
 
F. Central venous pressure monitoring equipment 
 
G. Cutdown instruments and supplies 
 
H. Intraosseous needles 
 
I. IV catheters, sets, tubing, poles 
 
J. Monitor/defibrillator with pediatric paddles, internal paddles, 
appropriate pads, and other supplies Pericardiocentesis 
instruments 
 
K. Temporary external pacemaker 
 
L. Transvenous and/or transthoracic pacemaker setup and supplies 
 
M. 12-Lead ECG machine 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.20. Trauma and miscellaneous resuscitation shall include: 
 
1. Blood salvage/autotransfusion device 
 
2. Emergency obstetric instruments and supplies 
 
3. Hypothermia thermometer 
 
4. Infant warming equipment 
 
5. Peritoneal lavage instruments and supplies 
 
6. Pneumatic antishock garment, as indicated 
 
7. Spine stabilization equipment to include cervical collars, short and long 
boards 
<<<PAGE 491>>>
 
491 
  
 
8. Warming/cooling blanket 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.21 Other Special Rooms. All items listed for general examination rooms plus: 
 
1. Orthopedic 
 
A. Cast cutter 
 
B. Cast and splint application supplies and equipment Cast spreader 
 
C. Crutches 
 
D. Extremity-splinting devices including traction splinting 
and fixation pins/wires and corresponding instruments 
and supplies 
 
E. Halo traction or Gardner-Wells/Trippe-Wells traction 
Radiograph view and hot light 
 
F. Suture instrument and supplies 
 
G. Traction equipment, including hanging weights and finger traps 
 
2. Eye/ENT 
 
A. Eye chart 
 
B. Ophthalmic tonometry device (applanation, Schiotz, or other) 
 
C. Other ophthalmic supplies as indicated, including eye spud, 
rust ring remover, cobalt blue light 
 
D. Slit lamp 
 
E. Ear irrigation and cerumen removal equipment 
 
<<<PAGE 492>>>
 
492 
  
F. Epistaxis instrument and supplies, including balloon 
posterior packs Frazier suction tips 
 
G. Headlight 
 
H. Laryngoscope mirror 
 
I. Plastic suture instruments and supplies 
 
3. OB-GYN 
 
A. Fetal Doppler and ultrasound equipment 
 
B. Obstetrics/Gynecology examination light 
 
C. Vaginal specula in pediatric through adult sizes 
 
D. Sexual assault evidence-collection kits (as appropriate) 
 
E. Suture material 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.22 Required Pharmacological/Therapeutic drugs for FED. These classes of 
drugs and agents are required. The medical director of the FED, 
representatives of the medical staff, and the director of the pharmacy 
shall develop a formulary of specific agents for use in the FED. 
1. Analgesics 
A. narcotic and non-narcotic 
2. Anesthetics 
A. topical, infiltrative, general 
3. Anticonvulsants 
4. Antidiabetic agents 
5. Antidotes 
<<<PAGE 493>>>
 
493 
  
6. Antihistamines 
7. Anti-infective agents 
A. systemic/topical 
8. Anti-inflammatories 
A. steroidal/non-steroidal 
9. Anti-platelets 
10. Aspirin 
11. Plavix 
12. Heparin 
13. Bicarbonates 
14. Blood Modifiers 
15. Anticoagulants to include thrombolytics 
16. Anticoagulants 
17. Hemostatic agents 
A. systemic 
B. topical 
C. plasma expanders/ extenders 
18. Burn Preparations 
19. Cardiovascular agents 
A. Ace inhibitors 
B. Adrenergic blockers 
C. Adrenergic stimulants 
D. Alpha/Beta blockers 
E. Antiarrhythmic agents 
F. Calcium channel blockers 
<<<PAGE 494>>>
 
494 
  
G. Digoxin antagonist 
H. Diuretics 
I. Vasodilators 
J. Vasopressors 
20. Cholinesterase Inhibitors 
21. Diagnostic agents 
A. Blood contents 
B. tool contents 
C. Testing for myasthenia gravis 
D. Urine contents 
22. Electrolytes 
A. Cation exchange resin 
B. Electrolyte replacements, parenteral and oral 
C. Fluid replacement solutions 
23. Gastrointestinal agents 
A. Antacids 
B. Anti-diarrheals 
C. Emetics and Anti-emetics 
D. Anti-flatulent 
E. Anti-spasmodics 
F. Bowel evacuants/laxatives 
G. Histamine receptor antagonists 
H. Proton pump inhibitors 
24. Glucose elevating agents 
25. Hormonal agents 
<<<PAGE 495>>>
 
495 
  
26. Hypocalcemia and hypercalcemia management agents 
27. Lubricants 
28. Migraine preparations 
29. Muscle relaxants 
30. Narcotic antagonist 
31. Nasal preparation 
32. Ophthalmologic preparations 
33. Otic preparations 
34. Oxytocics 
35. Pain Medications 
36. Psychotherapeutic agents 
37. Respiratory agents 
A. Antitussives 
B. Bronchodilators 
C. Decongestants 
D. Leukotriene antagonist 
38. Rho(D) immune globulin 
39. Salicylates 
40. Sedatives and Hypnotics 
41. Thrombolytics 
42. Vaccinations 
43. Vitamins and minerals 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.23 Radiologic, Imaging, and Other Diagnostic Services. The specific 
services available and the timeliness of availability of these services 
<<<PAGE 496>>>
 
496 
  
for emergency patients in FED should be determined by the medical 
director of the FED in collaboration with the directors of the 
diagnostic services and other appropriate individuals. 
1. The following should be readily available 24 hours a day for 
emergency patients: 
 
A. Standard radiologic studies of bony and soft-tissue structures 
including, but not limited to: 
 
i. Cross-table lateral views of spine with full series to follow 
 
ii. Portable chest radiographs for acutely ill patients and for 
verification of placement of endotracheal tube, central line, 
or chest tube 
 
iii. Soft-tissue views of the neck 
 
iv. Soft-tissue views of subcutaneous tissues to rule out the 
presence of foreign body 
 
v. Standard chest radiographs, abdominal series, etc. 
 
B. Pulmonary services 
 
i. Arterial blood gas determination 
 
ii. Peak flow determination 
 
iii. Pulse oximetry 
 
C. Fetal monitoring (nonstress test)/uterine monitoring 
 
D. Cardiovascular services 
 
i. Doppler studies 
<<<PAGE 497>>>
 
497 
  
 
ii. 12-Lead ECGs and rhythm strips 
 
E. Emergency ultrasound services for the diagnosis of 
obstetric/gynecologic, cardiac, and hemodynamic problems and 
other urgent conditions. 
 
2. The following services shall be available on an urgent basis. 
Such may be provided by on duty staff or on call staff available 
to respond within a reasonable period of time: 
 
A. Nuclear medicine 
 
i. Ventilation-perfusion lungs scans 
 
ii. Other scintigraphy for trauma and other conditions 
B. Radiographic 
 
i. Arteriography/venography 
 
ii. Computed tomography 
 
iii. Dye-contrast studies (intravenous pyelography, 
gastrointestinal contrast, etc.) 
 
C. Vascular/flow studies including impedance plethysmography 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.24 Required Laboratory Capabilities. The medical director of the FED 
and the director of laboratory services shall develop guidelines for 
availability and timeliness of services for the FED. The following 
laboratory capabilities are required for the FED. This list may not be 
comprehensive or complete. 
 
<<<PAGE 498>>>
 
498 
  
1. Blood bank 
 
A. Bank products availability 
 
B. Type and cross-matching capabilities 
 
2. Chemistry 
 
A. Ammonia 
 
B. Amylase 
 
C. Anticonvulsant and other therapeutic drug levels 
 
D. Arterial blood gases 
 
E. Bilirubin (total and direct) 
 
F. Calcium 
 
G. Carboxyhemoglobin 
 
H. Cardiac isoenzymes (including creatine kinase- MB) 
 
I. Chloride (blood and cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]) 
 
J. Creatinine 
 
K. Electrolytes 
 
L. Ethanol 
M. Glucose (blood and CSF) 
<<<PAGE 499>>>
 
499 
  
N. Liver-function enzymes (ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase) 
 
O. Methemoglobin 
 
P. Osmolality 
 
Q. Protein (CSF) 
 
R. Serum magnesium 
 
S. Urea nitrogen 
 
3. Hematology 
 
A. Cell count and differential (blood, CSF, and joint fluid analysis) 
 
B. Coagulation studies 
 
C. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
 
D. Platelet count 
 
E. Reticulocyte count 
 
F. Sickle cell prep 
 
4. Microbiology 
 
A. Acid fast smear/staining 
 
B. Chlamydia testing 
 
C. Counter immune electrophoresis for bacterial identification 
<<<PAGE 500>>>
 
500 
  
 
D. Gram staining and culture/sensitivities 
 
E. Herpes testing 
 
F. Strep screening 
 
G. Viral culture 
 
H. Wright stain 
 
5. Other 
 
A. Hepatitis screening 
B. HIV screening 
 
C. Prothrombin Time (PT)/International Normalized Ratio 
(INR), Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) 
 
i. D-dimer 
 
D. Joint fluid and CSF analysis 
 
E. Toxicology screening and drug levels 
 
F. Urinalysis 
 
G. Mononucleosis spot 
 
H. Serology (syphilis, recombinant, immunoassay) 
 
I. Pregnancy testing (qualitative and quantitative) 
 
<<<PAGE 501>>>
 
501 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.25 Transfer of Unstable Patients from FED to Acute Care Hospital. Once 
the patient is determined to require a higher level of care than can be 
provided at the FED, the physician shall immediately contact the 
designated EMS for transport. If the EMS is based on site, the transport 
team will be notified immediately. The physician will stabilize the 
emergency medical condition and determine the transfer destination 
based on the specialized capabilities of facilities that are offered at local 
hospitals. The FED facility will implement all procedures and protocols 
for acutely ill patients before departure from the FED. Such conditions 
would include, but not be limited to, STEMI, acute ischemic stroke, and 
cardiac arrests. All electronic medical records and any diagnostic test 
results will be transported with the patient to the receiving facility. 
Should a patient meeting trauma system activation requirements arrive 
at the FED, the FED will transfer the patient in accordance with the 
federal EMTALA regulations and the MS State Board of Health 
approved System of Care Plans. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.26 Medical records/organization. The FED shall have a medical record 
department with administrative responsibility for medical records. A 
medical record shall be maintained, in accordance with accepted 
professional principles, for each patient receiving care in the FED. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.27 Confidentiality. Medical records shall be kept confidential and only 
authorized personnel shall have access to the records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.28 Consent. Written consent of the patient or the patient’s legal 
representative shall be presented as authority for release of medical 
information and this release shall become part of the medical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.29 Access to records. Medical records shall not be removed from the 
<<<PAGE 502>>>
 
502 
  
FED environment except upon subpoena or patient’s written consent. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.83.30 Preservation. Medical records shall be preserved, either in the original 
or by reproduction, for a period of time not less than that set forth in 
Title 41, Chapter 9 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 84 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR 
MISSISSIPPI PILOT FREESTANDING EMERGENCY 
ROOMS 
 
Rule 41.84.1. Adoption of Regulations and Minimum Standards. By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Mississippi Code Annotated Sections 41-
75-1 through 41-75- 13, or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi 
Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the 
following regulations and standards for Pilot Freestanding 
Emergency Rooms (PFER). 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.2  Compliance with Rules, Regulations and Standards. 
The PFER shall report to the licensing agency all required data as specified by the 
licensing agency at a frequency required by the licensing agency. Must 
include but not limited to trauma, hospital discharge data, etc. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.3  Definitions. The definitions specific to the PFER are: 
 
1. Licensing Agency. “Licensing agency” means the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
2. Pilot Freestanding Emergency Room (PFER). "Pilot 
freestanding emergency room" is a facility open twenty-
four (24) hours a day for the treatment of urgent and 
<<<PAGE 503>>>
 
503 
  
emergent medical conditions that is not located on a 
hospital campus. In order to be eligible for licensure 
under this chapter, the pilot freestanding emergency room 
shall be located at least fifteen (15) miles from the nearest 
hospital- based emergency room in a county without 
emergency hospital care that is open twenty-four (24) hours 
a day. A PFER shall not retain any patient beyond 23 hours 
and 59 minutes under normal operations and shall not hold 
itself out as an emergency hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-1 
 
Rule 41.84.4 License. No person or governmental unit shall establish, conduct, or 
maintain a Pilot Freestanding Emergency Room in this state without a 
license. The licensing agency shall not issue licenses for more than five 
(5) pilot freestanding emergency rooms. Licensing fees will be set by 
the board. 
 
Provisional License. Within its discretion, the Mississippi State Department of Health 
may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of non- 
compliance with these regulations exists in one or more particulars. A 
provisional license shall be issued only if the Department of Health is 
satisfied that preparations are being made to qualify for a regular license 
and that the health and safety of patients will not be endangered. One 
condition on which a provisional license may be issued is as follows: A 
new pilot freestanding emergency room may be issued a provisional 
license prior to opening and subsequent to meeting the required minimum 
staffing personnel. The license issued under this condition shall be valid 
until the issuance of a regular license but shall not exceed five months 
following date of issuance whichever may be sooner. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.5 Application for License. An application for a license shall be made to 
the licensing agency by a licensed Mississippi hospital upon forms 
provided by the licensing agency and shall contain such information 
as the licensing agency reasonably requires. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.6 Licensure and User Fees. Such fees shall be paid to the licensing 
<<<PAGE 504>>>
 
504 
  
agency by electronic payment, business check, certified check, or 
money order. A license shall not be issued to any PFER until such fee 
is received by the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.7 User Fee. A “user fee” shall be assessed by the licensing agency for the 
purpose of the required reviewing and inspections of the proposal of 
any PFER in which there are additions, renovations, modernizations, 
expansion, alterations, conversions, modifications, or replacement of 
the entire facility involved in the proposal. This fee includes the 
reviewing of architectural plans in all required steps. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.8 Renewal of License. A license, unless suspended or revoked, shall be 
renewable annually by submitting an application, paying an annual fee and 
submitting such reports as required by the licensing agency, including annual 
information reports. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.9 Issuance of License. Each license shall be issued only for the 
premises and persons or governmental units names in the 
application and shall not be transferable or assignable except 
with the written approval of the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.10 Denial or Revocation of a License. The licensing agency, after notice 
and opportunity for hearing to the applicant or licensee, is authorized to 
deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that 
there has been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements 
established in these regulations and standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.11 Ownership. There shall be full disclosure of PFER ownership and control. 
<<<PAGE 505>>>
 
505 
  
Annually, in its application for renewal of an PFER License, the facility shall report 
the name and address of the owner and the name and address of the 
individual(s) responsible for operation of the PFER. All PFERs must 
be affiliated with a MS licensed hospital. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.12 Change of Ownership. When change of ownership of a PFER is 
contemplated, the PFER shall notify the licensing agency, in writing, at 
least 30 days prior to the proposed date of change of ownership, giving 
the name and address of the proposed new owner and all other 
documents as required by the licensing agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.13 Governing Authority. The PFER shall have an organized governing body, 
or designated person(s): 
 
1. That has overall responsibility for the conduct of the PFER in 
a manner consistent with the objective of making available 
high quality patient care. 
2. That shall be the authority in the PFER, responsible for the 
management of the PFER and appointment of the medical staff. 
3. That shall adopt bylaws in accordance with legal requirements 
and with its community responsibility, identifying the purposes 
of the PFER and the means of fulfilling them. 
4. That shall take all reasonable steps to comply with all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws and 
regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.14. Staffing and Treatment. The PFER must possess the staff and 
resources necessary to evaluate all individuals presenting to the 
emergency department. The PFER must follow all requirements of 
EMTALA in regard to assuring the medical evaluation, stabilization 
and transfer of a patient found to have an emergency condition. The 
<<<PAGE 506>>>
 
506 
  
PFER must follow all Board approved System of Care Plans. 
Because of the unscheduled and episodic nature of health 
emergencies and acute illness, the PFER must be staffed with 
experienced American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) or 
American Osteopathic Association (AOA) board certified or board 
eligible medical director, physicians, nursing, and ancillary personnel 
who must be available 24 hours a day. The PFER will also provide 
treatment for individuals whose health needs are not of an emergent 
nature, but for whom the PFER may be the only accessible or timely 
entry point into the broader health care system. 
 
1. Staffing that must be available 24 hours a day on site include: 
 
A. At-least one physician on site Certified or Board Eligible 
by the American Board of Emergency Medicine or the 
American Board of Osteopathic Emergency Medicine; or 
Certified or Board Eligible to sit for the examination of 
one of the following boards: Internal Medicine, Family 
Medicine, or Surgery; and shall hold a certificate from the 
following approved programs: Advanced Coronary Life 
Support; Advanced Trauma Life Support; Advanced 
Pediatric Life Support; and shall have three years of full-
time clinical experience in emergency medicine within the 
past five years. 
 
B. At-least one registered nurse on site with training in 
emergency care. Registered nurse shall hold a current 
certification in both Advanced Cardiac Life Support 
and Advanced Pediatric Life Support, or two 
registered nurses on site at all times, one having 
current certification in Advanced Cardiac Life 
Support and one with current certification in 
Advanced Pediatric Life Support. 
 
C. At-least one certified and registered radiology 
technologist shall be on site at the PFER at all times. 
 
D. At-least one person qualified to perform laboratory 
testing at the level of laboratory services provided on site 
by the PFER shall be on duty at all times. 
 
E. Each PFER shall have a full-time administrative 
<<<PAGE 507>>>
 
507 
  
director who directors the daily administrative 
operations of the PFER, ensures the employees and staff 
are adequately trained, and provides oversight of the 
maintenance of the PFER, coordination of patient 
safety and quality improvement programs and 
activities. 
 
F. Compliance with the above will be evidenced by: 
 
i. Published on-call list of practitioners to the 
Emergency Department; and 
 
ii. Documentation of nursing staffing patterns to 
assure 24- hour coverage. 
 
2. Each PFER shall have patient transfer agreements with an EMS 
service and with an affiliated acute care or trauma hospital with 
the capability of handling such emergencies or has State Board 
of Health approved system of care plan to assure provisions for 
patient admissions, continued emergency, and diagnostic 
services beyond the capability of the PFER, and the safe 
emergency transport of the patient, when needed. 
 
3. Once the decision for transfer has been made, it is the 
responsibility of the referring physician to initiate 
resuscitation measures within the capabilities of the local 
hospital. The referring provider shall select a mode of 
transport according to the patient’s needs so that the level of 
care is appropriate during transport. 
 
4. As stated by the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP): 
 
A. Emergency medical care shall be available to all 
members of the public 24 hours a day. 
 
B. Access to appropriate emergency medical and 
nursing care shall be unrestricted. 
 
C. A smooth continuum should exist among pre-hospital 
<<<PAGE 508>>>
 
508 
  
providers, emergency room (ER) providers, and 
providers of definitive follow-up care. 
 
D. Evaluation, management, and treatment of 
patient shall be appropriate and expedient. 
 
E. Resources should exist in the ER to 
accommodate each patient from the time of 
arrival through evaluation, medical decision 
making, treatment and disposition. 
 
F. PFERs should have policies and plans to provide 
effective administration, staffing, training, 
facility design, equipment, medication, and 
ancillary services. 
 
G. The emergency physician, emergency nurse, and 
additional medical team members should establish 
effective working relationships with other healthcare 
providers and entities with whom they must interact. 
These include emergency medical services (EMS) 
providers, ancillary hospital personnel, other 
physicians, and other health care and social services 
resources. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.15 Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
1. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, employee shall mean any 
individual employed by a covered entity. The term employee”, 
also includes any individual who by contract with the covered 
entity provides direct patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or 
client’s room or in treatment rooms. 
 
The term employee does not include healthcare 
professional/technical students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, 
performing clinical training in a licensed entity under contracts 
between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not 
<<<PAGE 509>>>
 
509 
  
include students at high schools who observe the treatment and 
care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the requirements of 
an allied health course taught in the school if: 
 
A. The student is under the supervision of a licensed 
healthcare provider; and 
 
B. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the 
student’s school stating that he or she has not been 
convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a 
felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any 
sex offenses listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, 
arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, 
aggravated assault, or felonious abuse and/or battery of a 
vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea was 
reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the 
conviction or plea. 
 
C. Further, applicants and employees of the University of 
Mississippi Medical Center for whom criminal history 
record checks and fingerprinting are obtained in 
accordance with Section 37-115-41 are exempt from 
application of the term employee under Section 43-11-
13. 
2. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record 
checks, “covered  entity” means a licensed entity or a 
healthcare professional staffing agency. 
 
3. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record 
checks, the term “licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing 
home, personal care home, home health agency or hospice. 
 
4. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic 
Program. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
“health care professional/vocational technical academic program” 
means an academic program in medicine, nursing, dentistry, 
occupational therapy, physical therapy, social services, speech 
therapy, or other allied-health professional whose purpose is to 
prepare professionals to render patient care services. 
 
<<<PAGE 510>>>
 
510 
  
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student. For 
purposes of criminal history record checks, the  term means a  
student enrolled in a healthcare professional/vocational 
technical academic program. 
 
6. Direct Patient Care or Services. For purposes of fingerprinting 
and criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient 
care” means direct hands-on medical patient care and services 
provided by an individual in a patient, resident or client’s room 
treatment room or recovery room. Individuals providing direct 
patient care may be directly employed by the facility or provides 
patient care on a contractual basis. 
 
7.  Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of 
fingerprinting and criminal background history checks, the term 
“documented disciplinary action” means any action taken against 
an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.16 Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
1. Pursuant to Section 43 -11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
covered entity shall require to be performed a disciplinary check 
with the professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee to 
determine if any disciplinary action has been taken against the 
employee by the agency, and a criminal history record check on: 
 
A. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct 
patient care or services; and 
 
B. Any individual seeking new employment with a covered 
entity whose initial criminal history record check is over 
two years old. 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee 
hired on or after  July 01, 2003, shall be  permitted to provide 
direct patient care until the results of the criminal history record 
check revealed no disqualifying record, or the employee has been 
granted a waiver. Provided the covered entity has documented 
evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background check, any 
<<<PAGE 511>>>
 
511 
  
person may be employed and provide direct patient care on a 
temporary basis pending the results of the criminal history 
record check but any employment offer, contract, or arrangement 
with the person shall be voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying 
criminal record check and no waiver is granted. 
 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony 
conviction; a guilty plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a 
felony for one (1) or more of the following crimes which has not 
been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been 
granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be 
employed at the licensed facility: 
 
A. possession or sale of drugs 
B. murder 
C. manslaughter 
D. armed robbery 
E. rape 
F. sexual battery 
G. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 
1972 
H. child abuse 
I. arson 
J. grand larceny 
K. burglary 
L. gratification of lust 
M. aggravated assault 
N. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
4. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary 
status, if any, with the employee’s professional licensing agency 
<<<PAGE 512>>>
 
512 
  
as applicable, and evidence of submission of the employee’s 
fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on file and 
maintained by the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment. The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence 
of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status from any 
applicable professional licensing agency and of submission 
and/or completion of the criminal record check, the signed affidavit, if 
applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter addressing 
the individual’s suitability for such employment. 
 
5. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
licensing agency shall require every employee of a covered 
entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, to sign an affidavit 
stating that he or she does not have a criminal history as outlined 
in paragraph (c) above. 
 
6. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered 
entity hired before July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide 
direct patient care unless the employee has signed an affidavit as 
required by this section. The covered entity shall place the affidavit 
in the employee’s personnel file as proof of compliance with this 
section. 
 
7. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is 
later determined that the person actually had been convicted of or 
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any of the offenses listed 
herein, and the conviction or pleas has not been reversed on appeal 
or a pardon has not been granted for the conviction or plea, the 
person is guilty of perjury as set out in Section 43-11-13, 
Mississippi Code of 1972. The covered entity shall immediately 
institute termination proceedings against the employee pursuant to 
the facility’s policies and procedures. 
 
8. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee 
unable to sign the affidavit required by paragraph (g) of this 
subsection or any employee applicant aggrieved by the 
employment decision under this subsection to appear before the 
covered entity’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show 
mitigating circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or 
employee applicant to be employed at the covered entity. The 
covered entity, upon report and recommendation of the hiring 
officer, may grant waivers for those mitigating circumstances, 
which shall include, but not be limited to: 
<<<PAGE 513>>>
 
513 
  
(1) age at which the crime was committed; (2) circumstances 
surrounding the crime; (3) length of time since the conviction and 
criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; (5) current 
employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to 
the health or safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
 
9. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity 
submitting the fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty 
Dollars ($50.00). 
 
10. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record 
check reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, 
within two (2) weeks two (2) weeks of the notification of no 
disqualifying event, provide the employee applicant with a 
notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered entity, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the 
employee applicant’s suitability for employment based on his or 
her criminal history record check. An employee applicant may use 
that letter for a period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to 
seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the Mississippi 
Department of Health without the necessity of an additional criminal 
record check. Any covered entity presented with the letter may rely on 
the letter with respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background 
and is not required for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal history check as required 
in this subsection. 
 
11. For individuals contacted through  a third party who provide 
direct patient care  as defined herein, the covered entity shall 
require proof of a criminal history record check. 
 
12. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the 
licensing agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officer, 
employees, attorneys, and representatives, shall be presumed to be 
acting in good faith for any employment decision or action taken 
under this section. The presumption of good faith may be 
overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil action. 
No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys, and representatives shall be held liable in 
any employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of 
discrimination is made regarding an employment decision 
authorized under this section. 
<<<PAGE 514>>>
 
514 
  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.17 Required Policies. The PFER Emergency Department Policy Sections 
shall include: 
 
1. Resources and Planning 
A. Necessary Elements 
B. Administration 
C. Staffing 
D. Facility 
E. Equipment and Supplies 
F. Pharmacologic/Therapeutic Drugs and Agents 
G. Safety 
H. Ancillary Services 
I. Transfer policies and procedures for critical patients 
J. Electronic Medical Record 
K. Relationships and Responsibilities 
L. The policies and procedures governing medical care 
provided in the emergency service or department shall 
be established by and shall be a continuing responsibility 
of the medical staff. The PFER shall have written 
policies and procedures governing the receipt of patients 
from emergency medical services and the transfer of 
patients to a receiving facility. The policies must comply 
with Mississippi Emergency Medical Services Rules and 
Regulations. 
2. Core Measures 
A. Measure Groups 
i. Median Time from PFER Arrival to 
Departure for Discharged Patients 
<<<PAGE 515>>>
 
515 
  
ii. Median Time from PFER Arrival to 
Decision to Transfer 
iii. Median Time from Decision to Transfer to 
arrival at receiving facility 
iv. Total lengths of stay and door-to-doctor times 
B. Quality/Safety Metrics 
i. PFER will be responsible for reporting all categories 
required 
ii. Case analysis of EMS patient outliers. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.18 Design and Construction Elements: Physical Plant. 
 
1. General. Every institution subject to these Minimum Standards 
shall be housed in a safe building which contains all the facilities 
required to render the services contemplated in the application for 
license. 
 
2. Codes. The term “safe” shall be interpreted in the light of 
compliance with the requirements of the codes recognized by this 
agency on date of construction which are incorporated by reference 
as a part of these Minimum Standards; included are the Life Safety 
Code of the National Fire Protection Association, American 
National Standards Institute, Standards Number A- 17.1, and A-
17.3, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, the American 
Institute of Architects (AIA), Guidelines for Design and 
Construction of Hospital and Health Care Facilities, and references 
incorporated as body of all afore mentioned standards. 
 
A. Life Safety Code compliance relative to construction date: 
 
i. Buildings constructed after February 14, 2005, 
shall comply with the edition of the Life Safety 
Code (NFPA 101) recognized by this agency on 
the date of construction. 
 
<<<PAGE 516>>>
 
516 
  
ii. Building constructed prior to February 14, 
2005, shall comply with existing chapter of 
the Life Safety Code recognized by this 
agency. 
 
B. For minimum standards governing Heating, 
Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC), area 
design, space allocation, parking requirements, and 
other considerations not specifically addressed by 
local authority or standards referenced herein, 
compliance with the AIA guidelines will be deemed 
acceptable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.19 Submission of Plans and Specifications. 
 
1. Construction shall not be started for any institution subject to these 
standards (whether new or remodeling or additions to an existing 
licensed hospital) until the plans and specifications for such 
construction or remodeling have been submitted to the Licensing 
Agency in writing and its approval of the changes given in writing. 
 
A. Exception: Foundation changes made necessary by 
unanticipated conditions, or any conditions which 
present a hazard to life or property if not immediately 
corrected. 
 
2. Plans and specifications for any substantial hospital construction 
or remodeling should be prepared by competent architects and 
engineers licensed to practice in the state and who assume 
responsibility for supervising the construction. The following 
plans shall be submitted to the Licensing Agency for review: 
 
A. Preliminary Plans - To include schematics of buildings, 
plot plans showing size and shape of entire site, existing 
structures, if any, streets and location and characteristics 
of all needed utilities, floor plans of every floor 
dimensioned and with proposed use of each room or area 
shown. If for additions or remodeling, provide plan or of 
<<<PAGE 517>>>
 
517 
  
existing building showing all proposed alterations, 
outline specifications to include a general description of 
the construction, type of finishes, and type of heating, 
ventilating, plumbing, and electrical systems proposed. 
B. Final Working Drawings and Specifications - 
Complete and in sufficient detail to be the basis for 
the award of construction contracts. 
 
3. All plans submitted for review must be accompanied in their first 
submission by an order of the governing board indicating the type 
and scope of license to be applied for or a Certificate of Need. 
Plans receiving approval of the Licensing Agency upon which 
construction has not begun within six (6) months following such 
approval must be resubmitted for approval. 
 
A. In all new facilities, plans must be submitted to all 
regulatory agencies, such as the County Health 
Department, etc., for approval prior to starting 
construction. 
 
B. Upon completion of construction an inspection shall be 
made by the Licensing Agency and approval given 
prior to occupying the building or any part thereof. 
The state and county health departments shall have 
access to the job site during regular business hours 
and shall conduct construction progress inspections as 
deemed necessary by the agency. 
 
4. Environment. All hospitals shall be so located that they are 
reasonably free from undue noises, smoke, dust, or foul odors, and 
should not be located adjacent to railroads, freight yards, schools, 
children's playgrounds, airports, industrial plants, or disposal 
plants. The proposed site for new hospitals shall be approved by the 
department. No new facilities shall be located nearer than 1000 ft. 
to a cross- country petroleum or gas pipeline. 
 
5. Zoning Restrictions. The locations of an institution shall 
comply with all local zoning ordinances. 
 
6. Access. Institutions located in rural areas must be served by 
good roads which can be kept passable at all times. 
<<<PAGE 518>>>
 
518 
  
 
7. Elevators. One power driven elevator is required in all hospitals 
having patient rooms, operating suite, or delivery suite above the 
first floor. Two or more elevators are required if 60 or more 
patients are housed above the ground floor. Minimum cab 
dimensions required for elevators transporting patients is 76" x 
50"inside clear measurements: hatchway and cab doors 3'8" 
wide, minimum. Elevators are subject to the requirements of 
referenced standard listed in paragraph 602, Codes, of this 
regulation. 
 
8. Signage. To post conspicuously in any emergency room or in a 
place or places likely to be noticed by all individuals entering the 
emergency room, as well as those individuals waiting for 
examination and treatment in areas other than traditional 
emergency room (that is, entrance, admitting area, waiting room, 
treatment area) to notify individuals they are in an emergency 
room and not in a clinic.  
A. Patient must be notified verbally or in writing of their 
location on arrival at the PFER. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.20 Fire Reporting and Protection. 
 
1. Duty to report all fires, explosions, natural disasters, avoidable 
deaths or avoidable serious or life-threatening injuries to patients 
shall be reported by telephone to the department by the next 
working day after the occurrence. The licensing agency will 
provide the appropriate forms to the facility which shall be 
completed and returned within fifteen (15) calendar days of the 
occurrence. All reports shall be complete, thorough, and shall 
record at a minimum the casual factors, date, time of occurrence, 
and exact location of occurrence whether inside or outside of the 
facility. Attached thereto shall be all police, fire, and/or other 
official reports. There must be a telephone in the building to 
summon help in case of fire. 
 
2. All new construction or renovation with the licensing agency’s 
approval date on or after February 14, 2005, shall be protected 
<<<PAGE 519>>>
 
519 
  
throughout by a sprinkler system. 
 
3. Heating and Ventilating. Suitable artificial heat shall be 
furnished to maintain75 degrees F inside temperature with 10 
degrees F outside temperature. Circulating hot water from a 
remote boiler or vapor steam with circulating pump sand 
controls on emergency electrical service to provide heating in 
case of power failures are the preferred methods of heating. 
Electrical heating will be approved provided a standby 
electrical generator is provided of capacity to furnish 80% of 
the maximum heating load in addition to other power and 
lighting loads that maybe connected to it, or the hospital is 
supplied by two electric service lines connected to separate 
transformers at the sub-station so arranged that electric service 
can be maintained in case of failure of one line or transformer. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.21 Plumbing. 
 
All institutions subject to these standards shall be connected to an 
approved municipal water system or to a private supply whose purity has 
been certified by the laboratory of the Department of Health. Private 
supplies must be sampled, tested, and its purity certified at least twice 
annually and immediately following any repair or modification to the 
underground lines, the elevated tank, or to the well or pump. Supply must 
be adequate, both as to volume and pressure for firefighting purposes. 
Deficiencies in either must be remedied by the provision of auxiliary 
pumps, pressure tanks or elevated tanks as may be required. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.22 Emergency Electric Service. 
 
1. General. To provide electricity during an interruption of the 
normal electric supply that could affect the medical care, 
treatment, or safety of the occupants, an emergency source of 
electricity shall be provided and connected to certain circuits 
for lighting and power. 
 
<<<PAGE 520>>>
 
520 
  
2. Source. The source of this emergency electric service shall be an 
emergency generator, with a stand-by supply of fuel for 24 hours. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 41.84.23 PFER Equipment, Instruments, and Supplies 
1. The equipment, instruments, and supplies listed below are 
required in the PFER and each of the items should be located in 
or immediately available to the area noted. This list does not 
include routine medical/surgical supplies such as adhesive 
bandages, gauze pads, and suture material, nor does it include 
routine office items such as paper, desks, paper clips, and 
chairs. 
 
2. Electric Nurse Call. There shall be installed a low voltage nurse call 
system for every bed and such other areas as deemed necessary, with 
annunciator at nurses’ station and nurses work area. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.24 Entire PFER shall include: 
 
1. Central station monitoring capability 
 
2. Physiological monitors 
 
3. Blood flow detectors 
 
4. Defibrillator with monitor and battery 
 
5. Thermometers 
 
6. Pulse oximetry 
 
7. Nurse-call system for patient use 
 
8. Portable suction regulator 
9. Infusion pumps to include blood pumps 
<<<PAGE 521>>>
 
521 
  
 
10. IV poles 
 
11. Bag-valve-mask respiratory and adult and pediatric size mask 
 
12. Portable oxygen tanks 
 
13. Blood/fluid warmer and tubing 
 
14. Nasogastric suction supplies 
 
15. Nebulizer 
 
16. Gastric lavage supplies, including large-lumen tubes and bite blocks 
 
17. Urinary catheters, including straight catheters, Foley 
catheters, Coude catheters, filiforms and followers, and 
appropriate collection equipment 
 
18. Intraosseous needles 
 
19. Lumbar puncture sets (adult and pediatric) 
 
20. Blanket warmer 
 
21. Tonometer 
 
22. Slit lamp 
 
23. Wheelchairs 
 
24. Medication dispensing system with locking capabilities 
 
25. Separately wrapped instruments (specifics will vary by department) 
 
26. Availability of light microscopy for emergency procedures 
 
27. Weight scales (adult and infant) 
 
<<<PAGE 522>>>
 
522 
  
28. Tape measure 
 
29. Ear irrigation and cerumen removal equipment 
 
30. Vascular Doppler 
 
31. Anoscope 
 
32. Adult and Pediatric "code" cart 
 
33. Suture or minor surgical procedure sets (generic) 
 
34. Portable sonogram equipment 
 
35. EKG machine 
 
36. Point of care testing 
 
37. X-ray view box and hot light 
 
38. Film boxes for holding x-rays 
 
39. Chart Rack 
 
40. Computer system 
 
41. Internet capabilities 
 
42. Patient tracking system 
 
43. Radio or other device for communication with ambulances 
 
44. Patient discharge instruction system 
 
45. Patient registration system/ Information services 
 
46. Intradepartmental staff communication system- pagers, mobile phones 
 
<<<PAGE 523>>>
 
523 
  
47. charting system for physician, nursing, and 
attending physician documentation 
equipment 
 
48. Reference materials including toxicology resource information 
 
49. Personal protective equipment- gloves, eye goggles, face mask, 
gowns, head, and foot covers 
 
50. Linen (pillows, towels, wash cloths, gowns, blankets) 
 
51. Patient belongings or clothing bag 
 
52. Security needs -including restraints and wand-type or free-standing 
metal 
 
53. detectors as indicated 
54. Equipment for adequate housekeeping 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.25 PFER General Examination Rooms shall include: 
 
1. Examination tables or stretchers appropriate to the area. 
 
2. For any area in which seriously ill patients are managed, a 
stretcher with capability for changes in position, attached IV 
poles, and a holder for portable oxygen tank should be used. 
 
3. Pelvic tables for GYN examinations. 
 
4. Step stool 
 
5. Chair/stool for emergency staff 
 
6. Seating for family members or visitors 
<<<PAGE 524>>>
 
524 
  
 
7. Adequate lighting, including procedure lights as indicated 
 
8. Cabinets 
 
9. Adequate sinks for handwashing, including dispensers for 
germicidal soap and paper towels. 
 
10. Wall mounted oxygen supplies and equipment, 
including nasal cannulas, facemasks, and venturi 
masks. 
 
11. Wall mounted suction capability, including both tracheal 
cannulas and larger cannulas. 
 
12. Wall-mounted or portable otoscope/ophthalmoscope 
 
13. Sphygmomanometer/stethoscope 
 
14. Oral and nasal airways 
 
15. Biohazard-disposal receptacles, including for sharps 
 
16. Garbage receptacles for non-contaminated materials 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.26 PFER Resuscitation Room. All items listed for general examination rooms 
plus: 
1. Adult and Pediatric "code cart" to include appropriate medication charts 
 
2. Capability for direct communication with nursing station, 
preferably hands free 
 
3. Radiography equipment 
<<<PAGE 525>>>
 
525 
  
 
4. Radiographic view boxes and hot light 
 
5. Airways needs 
 
A. Big-valve-mask respirator (adult, pediatric, 
and infant) Cricothyroidotomy instruments 
and supplies 
 
B. Endotracheal tubes, size 2.5 to 8.5 mm 
 
C. Fiberoptic laryngoscope 
 
D. Laryngoscopes, straight and curved blades and stylets 
 
E. Laryngoscope mirror and supplies 
 
F. Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA) 
 
G. Oral and nasal airways 
 
H. Tracheostomy instrument and supplies 
 
6. Breathing 
 
A. BiPAP Ventilation System 
 
B. Closed-chest drainage device 
 
C. Chest tube instruments and supplies 
 
D. Emergency thoracotomy instruments and supplies 
 
E. End-tidal C02 monitor18 
 
F. Nebulizer 
 
G. Peak flow meter 
 
<<<PAGE 526>>>
 
526 
  
H. Pulse oximetry 
 
I. Volume cycle ventilator 
7. Circulation 
 
A. Automatic physiological monitor, noninvasive 
 
B. Blood/fluid infusion pumps and tubing 
 
C. Blood/fluid warmers 
 
D. Cardiac compression board 
 
E. Central venous catheter setups/kits 
 
F. Central venous pressure monitoring equipment 
 
G. Cutdown instruments and supplies 
 
H. Intraosseous needles 
 
I. IV catheters, sets, tubing, poles 
 
J. Monitor/defibrillator with pediatric paddles, internal 
paddles, appropriate pads, and other supplies 
Pericardiocentesis instruments 
 
K. Temporary external pacemaker 
 
L. Transvenous and/or transthoracic pacemaker setup and supplies 
 
M. 12-Lead ECG machine 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.27 Trauma and miscellaneous resuscitation shall include: 
 
1. Blood salvage/autotransfusion device 
 
<<<PAGE 527>>>
 
527 
  
2. Emergency obstetric instruments and supplies 
 
3. Hypothermia thermometer 
 
4. Infant warming equipment 
 
5. Peritoneal lavage instruments and supplies 
 
6. Pneumatic antishock garment, as indicated 
 
7. Spine stabilization equipment to include cervical collars, short and long 
boards 
8. Warming/cooling blanket 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.28 Other Special Rooms. All items listed for general examination rooms plus: 
 
1. Orthopedic 
A. Cast cutter 
B. Cast and splint application supplies and equipment Cast 
spreader 
C. Crutches 
D. Extremity-splinting devices including traction 
splinting and fixation pins/wires and 
corresponding instruments and supplies 
E. Halo traction or Gardner-Wells/Trippe-
Wells traction Radiograph view and hot 
light 
F. Suture instrument and supplies 
G. Traction equipment, including hanging weights and finger traps 
2. Eye/ENT 
A. Eye chart 
B. Ophthalmic tonometry device (applanation, Schiotz, or other) 
C. Other ophthalmic supplies as indicated, including 
<<<PAGE 528>>>
 
528 
  
eye spud, rust ring remover, cobalt blue light 
D. Slit lamp 
E. Ear irrigation and cerumen removal equipment 
F. Epistaxis instrument and supplies, including balloon 
posterior packs Frazier suction tips 
G. Headlight 
H. Laryngoscope mirror 
I. Plastic suture instruments and supplies 
3. OB-GYN 
A. Fetal Doppler and ultrasound equipment 
B. Obstetrics/Gynecology examination light 
C. Vaginal specula in pediatric through adult sizes 
D. Sexual assault evidence-collection kits (as appropriate) 
E. Suture material 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.29 Required Pharmacological/Therapeutic drugs for PFER. These classes of 
drugs and agents are required. The medical director of the PFER, 
representatives of the medical staff, and the director of the pharmacy 
shall develop a formulary of specific agents for use in the PFER. 
 
1. Analgesics 
a. narcotic and non-narcotic 
2. Anesthetics 
a. topical, infiltrative, general 
3. Anticonvulsants 
4. Antidiabetic agents 
<<<PAGE 529>>>
 
529 
  
5. Antidotes 
6. Antihistamines 
7. Anti-infective agents 
a. systemic/topical 
8. Anti-inflammatories 
a. steroidal/non-steroidal 
9. Anti-platelets 
10. Aspirin 
11. Plavix 
12. Heparin 
13. Bicarbonates 
14. Blood Modifiers 
15. Anticoagulants to include thrombolytics 
16. Anticoagulants 
17. Hemostatic agents 
a. systemic 
b. topical 
c. plasma expanders/extenders 
18. Burn Preparations 
19. Cardiovascular agents 
a. Ace inhibitors 
b. Adrenergic blockers 
c. Adrenergic stimulants 
d. Alpha/Beta blockers 
e. Antiarrhythmic agents 
<<<PAGE 530>>>
 
530 
  
f. Calcium channel blockers 
g. Digoxin antagonist 
h. Diuretics 
i. Vasodilators 
j. Vasopressors 
20. Cholinesterase Inhibitors 
21. Diagnostic agents 
a. Blood contents 
b. Stool contents 
c. Testing for myasthenia gravis 
d. Urine contents 
22. Electrolytes 
a. Cation exchange resin 
b. Electrolyte replacements, parenteral and oral 
c. Fluid replacement solutions 
23. Gastrointestinal agents 
a. Antacids 
b. Anti-diarrheal 
c. Emetics and Anti-emetics 
d. Anti-flatulent 
e. Anti-spasmodic 
f. Bowel evacuants/laxatives 
g. Histamine receptor antagonists 
h. Proton pump inhibitors 
24. Glucose elevating agents 
<<<PAGE 531>>>
 
531 
  
25. Hormonal agents 
26. Hypocalcemia and hypercalcemia management agents 
27. Lubricants 
28. Migraine preparations 
29. Muscle relaxants 
30. Narcotic antagonist 
31. Nasal preparation 
32. Ophthalmologic preparations 
33. Otic preparations 
34. Oxytocics 
35. Pain Medications 
36. Psychotherapeutic agents 
37. Respiratory agents 
a. Antitussives 
b. Bronchodilators 
c. Decongestants 
d. Leukotriene antagonist 
38. Rho(D) immune globulin 
39. Salicylates 
40. Sedatives and Hypnotics 
41. Thrombolytics 
42. Vaccinations 
43. Vitamins and minerals 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 532>>>
 
532 
  
Rule 41.84.30 Radiologic, Imaging, and Other Diagnostic Services. The specific 
services available and the timeliness of availability of these services 
for emergency patients in PFER should be determined by the medical 
director of the PFER in collaboration with the directors of the 
diagnostic services and other appropriate individuals. 
 
1. The following should be readily available 24 hours a day for 
Emergency patients: 
A. Standard radiologic studies of bony and soft-tissue 
structures including, but not limited to: 
i. Cross-table lateral views of spine with full series to 
follow 
ii. Portable chest radiographs for acutely ill 
patients and for verification of placement of 
endotracheal tube, central line, or chest tube 
iii. Soft-tissue views of the neck 
iv. Soft-tissue views of subcutaneous tissues to 
rule out the presence of foreign body 
v. Standard chest radiographs, abdominal series, etc. 
B. Pulmonary services 
i. Arterial blood gas determination 
ii. Peak flow determination 
iii. Pulse oximetry 
C. Fetal monitoring (nonstress test)/uterine monitoring 
D. Cardiovascular services 
i. Doppler studies 
ii. 12-Lead ECGs and rhythm strips 
 
E. Emergency ultrasound services for the diagnosis 
of obstetric/gynecologic, cardiac, and 
hemodynamic problems and other urgent 
conditions. 
<<<PAGE 533>>>
 
533 
  
 
2. The following services shall be available on an urgent basis. All 
equipment listed below must be available if service is provided by 
the facility. Such may be provided by on duty staff or on call staff 
available to respond within a reasonable period of time: 
 
A. Nuclear medicine 
i. Ventilation-perfusion lungs scans 
ii. Other scintigraphy for trauma and other conditions 
B. Radiographic 
i. Arteriography/venography 
ii. Computed tomography preferred 
iii. Dye-contrast studies (intravenous 
pyelography, gastrointestinal 
contrast, etc.) 
C. Vascular/flow studies including impedance plethysmography 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.31 Required Laboratory Capabilities. The medical director of the PFER 
and the director of laboratory services shall develop guidelines for 
availability and timeliness of services for the PFER. The following 
laboratory capabilities are required for the PFER. This list may not 
be comprehensive or complete. 
 
1. Blood bank 
A. Bank products availability 
B. Type and cross-matching capabilities 
2. Chemistry 
A. Ammonia 
B. Amylase 
<<<PAGE 534>>>
 
534 
  
C. Anticonvulsant and other therapeutic drug levels 
D. Arterial blood gases 
E. Bilirubin (total and direct) 
F. Calcium 
G. Carboxyhemoglobin 
H. Cardiac isoenzymes (including creatine kinase- MB) 
I. Chloride (blood and cerebrospinal fluid [CSF]) 
J. Creatinine 
K. Electrolytes 
L. Ethanol 
M. Glucose (blood and CSF) 
N. Liver-function enzymes (ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase) 
O. Methemoglobin 
P. Osmolality 
Q. Protein (CSF) 
R. Serum magnesium 
S. Urea nitrogen 
3. Hematology 
A. Cell count and differential (blood, CSF, and joint fluid analysis) 
B. Coagulation studies 
C. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
D. Platelet count 
E. Reticulocyte count 
F. Sickle cell prep 
4. Microbiology 
<<<PAGE 535>>>
 
535 
  
A. Acid fast smear/staining 
B. Chlamydia testing 
C. Counter immune electrophoresis for bacterial identification 
D. Gram staining and culture/sensitivities 
E. Herpes testing 
F. Strep screening 
G. Viral culture 
H. Wright stain 
5. Other 
A. Hepatitis screening 
B. HIV screening 
C. Prothrombin Time (PT)/International Normalized 
Ratio (INR), Partial Thromboplastin Time (PTT) 
i. D-dimer 
D. Joint fluid and CSF analysis 
E. Toxicology screening and drug levels 
F. Urinalysis 
G. Mononucleosis spot 
H. Serology (syphilis, recombinant, immunoassay) 
I. Pregnancy testing (qualitative and quantitative) 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.32 Infection Control. The PFER shall provide a sanitary environment to avoid 
sources and transmission of infections and communicable diseases. There 
shall be an active program for the prevention, control, and investigation of 
infections and communicable diseases. 
 
<<<PAGE 536>>>
 
536 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.33 Medical Waste Management Plan. All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan in 
accordance with Adopted Standards for the Regulation for Medical Waste. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.34 Food and Dietetic Services. The PFER shall have appropriate food and 
beverages available for the patients. The PFER shall be responsible for 
meeting the nutritional needs of patients. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 41.84.35 Transfer of Unstable Patients from PFER to Acute Care Hospital. Once 
the patient is determined to require a higher level of care than can be 
provided at the PFER, the physician shall immediately contact the 
designated EMS for transport. If the EMS is based on site, the transport 
team will be notified immediately. The physician will stabilize the 
emergency medical condition and determine the transfer destination 
based on the specialized capabilities of facilities that are offered at local 
hospitals. The PFER facility will implement all procedures and protocols 
for acutely ill patients before departure from the PFER. Such conditions 
would include, but not be limited to, STEMI, acute ischemic stroke, and 
cardiac arrests. All electronic medical records and any diagnostic test 
results will be transported with the patient to the receiving facility. 
Should a patient meeting trauma system activation arrive at the PFER, 
the PFER will transfer the patient in accordance with the federal 
EMTALA regulations and MS State Board of Health approved System of 
Care Plans. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.36 Discharge Planning. The patient or their representative shall be provided 
written discharge instructions regarding follow up 
referrals/appointments, medication management and procurement, 
durable medical equipment, availability of community resources and 
other identified needs at the time of discharge. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 537>>>
 
537 
  
Rule 41.84.37 Medical Records. The facility shall have a medical record department with 
administrative responsibility for medical records. A medical record shall be 
maintained, in accordance with accepted professional principles, for each 
patient receiving care in the hospital. such records shall be kept confidential 
and only authorized personnel shall have access to the records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.38 Written Consent. Written consent of the patient or the patient’s legal 
representative shall be presented as authority for release of medical 
information and this release shall become part of the medical record. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.39 Medical Records. Medical records shall not be removed from the hospital 
environment except upon subpoena. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.40 Preservation. Records shall be preserved, either in the original or by 
reproduction, for a period of time not less than that set forth in Title 41, 
Chapter 9 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.41 Confidentiality. Medical records shall be kept confidential and only 
authorized personnel shall have access to the records. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.42 Emergency Operations Plan (EOP). The licensed entity shall develop and 
maintain a written preparedness plan utilizing the Emergency Operations 
Plan (EOP) Template developed by the MSDH Office of Emergency 
Planning and Response. “All Hazards” and “Whole Community” approach 
to emergency and disaster planning. The plan must include procedures to 
be followed in the event of any pandemic, act of terrorism or man-made or 
natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. The 
final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by 
the Office of Emergency Planning and Response, Mississippi State 
<<<PAGE 538>>>
 
538 
  
Department of Health, or their designates, for conformance with the “All 
Hazards Emergency Planning and Response Plan.” Particular attention 
shall be given to critical areas of concern which may arise during any “all 
hazards” emergency whether required to evacuate or to sustain in place. 
Additional plan criteria or a specified EOP format may be required as 
deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response. 
The eight (8) critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications – Facility status reports shall be submitted in a 
format and a frequency as required by the Office of Emergency 
Planning and Response 
2. Resources and Assets 
3. Safety and Security 
4. Smoke Detectors/Extinguishers (refer to NFPA 10) 
5. Staffing 
6. Infrastructure (Water, sewer, electricity, data systems, etc.) 
7. Clinical Activities and 
8. Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP) to include surge and 
alternate care sites. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.43 Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed 
annually or as directed by the Office of Emergency Planning and 
Response. Written evidence of current verification or review of provider 
EOPs, by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response, shall 
accompany all applications for facility license renewals. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.84.44 Facility Fire Preparedness. 
1. Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per 
quarter. Employees shall participate in a fire drill at least 
four (4) times per year. 
A. Written Records. Written records of all drills 
<<<PAGE 539>>>
 
539 
  
shall be maintained, indicating content of and 
attendance at each drill. 
B. A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each 
facility in a conspicuous place and kept current. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
Rule 41.84.45 Emergency Electric Services. (Refer to Subchapter 14).  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 85 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR 
MISSISSIPPI RURAL EMERGENCY HOSPITALS 
 
Rule 41.85.1 Adoption of Regulations and Minimum Standards. This Subchapter provides 
the specific state licensure requirements for Rural Emergency Hospitals 
(REHs). The provisions contained within this Subchapter, in conjunction 
with the federal Medicare Conditions of Participation (CoPs) for REHs, 
constitute the complete set of standards for REH licensure. Sections within 
this Subchapter designated as 'Reserved' indicate topics for which the 
adopted federal Conditions of Participation shall serve as the governing 
standard. Other Subchapters of the Minimum Standards of Operation for 
Mississippi Hospitals shall not apply to licensed REHs, unless expressly 
provided otherwise by a specific cross-reference herein.   
 By virtue of authority vested in it by the Mississippi Code Annotated, the 
Mississippi State Department of Health does hereby adopt the federal 
Medicare Conditions of Participation (CoPs) for Rural Emergency 
Hospitals (REH) as found in 42 CFR Part 485, Subpart E, as may be 
amended. These federal regulations shall serve as the primary operational 
and quality standards for an REH. 
1. The Medicare and Medicaid Programs; Conditions of Participation (CoPs) 
for Rural Emergency Hospitals (REH) and Critical Access Hospital CoP 
Updates as found in 42 CFR Parts 485 and 489 [CMS–3419–P] RIN 0938–
AU92/ Rural Emergency Hospital Conditions for Participation Part 485, 
Subpart E are hereby adopted. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 41.85.2 Compliance with Rules, Regulations and Standards.  The REH shall report to the 
licensing agency all required data as specified by the licensing agency at a 
frequency required by the licensing agency. This includes but is not to trauma data, 
hospital discharge data, and other data points deemed necessary by the licensing 
agency. 
<<<PAGE 540>>>
 
540 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.3 Definitions. The definitions specific to the REH are: 
 
1. Licensing Agency. “Licensing agency” means the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
2. Rural Emergency Hospital (REH). A rural emergency hospital 
(REH) is a new Medicare provider designation established by 
Congress through the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, 
Section 125. The REH designation allows Critical Access 
Hospitals (CAHs) and rural hospitals with no more than 50 beds 
to avert potential closure and continue to provide essential 
services for the communities they serve. REH’s provide 
emergency services and outpatient services. REH’s do not 
provide acute care inpatient services, with the exception of post-
hospital extended care services furnished in a distinct part unit 
licensed as a skilled-nursing facility. Pilot Freestanding 
Emergency Rooms and Freestanding Emergency Departments 
are not eligible to convert to a Rural Emergency Hospital. 
3. Certificate of Need (CON) Exemption. The conversion of an 
existing, eligible hospital to a Rural Emergency Hospital (REH) 
does not require a Certificate of Need or a Determination of 
Reviewability from the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. 41-75-1 
 
Rule 41.85.4 License. No person or governmental unit shall establish, conduct, or maintain a 
Rural Emergency Hospital in this state without a license issued by the licensing agency. Each 
license shall be issued only for the premises and persons or governmental units named in the 
application and shall not be transferable or assignable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.5 Application for License. An application for a license shall be made to the 
licensing agency upon forms provided by the licensing agency and shall contain 
such information as the licensing agency reasonably requires, including: 
1.  Documentation of eligibility for the REH designation.  
2. Proof of financial viability sufficient to ensure continuous operation for a period 
of not less than 24 months, which shall include, at a minimum, a business plan 
with pro forma financial statements. 
<<<PAGE 541>>>
 
541 
  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.6 Licensure and User Fees. Each initial and renewal licensure application shall be 
accompanied by a fee as set by the Board. A license, unless suspended or 
revoked, shall be renewable annually. Such fees shall be paid to the licensing 
agency by electronic payment, business check, certified check, or money order. 
A license shall not be issued until such fee is received by the licensing agency. 
Fees are non-refundable. 
1. User Fee. A “user fee” in an amount set by the Board, shall be assessed by 
the licensing agency for the purpose of the required reviewing and 
inspections of the proposal of any REH in which there are additions, 
renovations, modernizations, expansion, alterations, conversions, 
modifications or replacement of the entire facility involved in the proposal. 
This fee includes the reviewing of architectural plans in all required steps. 
2. Provisional License. Within its discretion, the Mississippi State Department 
of Health may issue a provisional license when a facility is found to be in 
substantial compliance with these regulations but has minor, correctable 
deficiencies. A provisional license shall be issued only if the Department of 
Health is satisfied that preparations are being made to qualify for a regular 
license and that the health and safety of patients will not be endangered. The 
provisional license shall be valid until the issuance of a regular license but 
shall not exceed five months following the date of issuance. 
3. .Denial, Revocation, or Suspension of License. The licensing agency, after 
notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is 
authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds 
that there has been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements 
established in these regulations and standards. 
4. Posting of License. The license issued by the licensing agency shall be 
posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises, accessible to public 
view. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.7 User Fee. A “user fee” in an amount set by the Board, shall be assessed by the 
licensing agency for the purpose of the required reviewing and inspections of the 
proposal of any hospital in which there are additions, renovations, 
modernizations, expansion, alterations, conversions, modifications or 
replacement of the entire facility involved in the proposal. This fee includes the 
reviewing of architectural plans in all required steps. Fees are to be made 
<<<PAGE 542>>>
 
542 
  
payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, and paid by either a 
business check, money order, or electronic means. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.8 Renewal of License. A license, unless suspended or revoked, shall be renewable 
annually, upon filing by the licensee, and approval by the licensing agency of an 
annual report upon such uniform dates and containing such information as the 
licensing agency requires and upon paying the annual fee for such license. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.9 Issuance of License. Each license shall be issued only for the premises and 
persons or governmental units names in the application and shall not be 
transferable or assignable except with the written approval of the licensing 
agency. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.10 Denial or Revocation of a License. The licensing agency, after notice and 
opportunity for hearing to the applicant or licensee, is authorized to deny, 
suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that there has been a 
substantial failure to comply with the requirements established in these 
regulations and standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.11 Ownership. There shall be full and transparent disclosure of REH ownership 
and control. The application for licensure shall identify all persons and entities 
with a direct or indirect ownership or controlling interest of five percent (5%) or 
more in the REH, including the ultimate beneficial ownership. 
1. Refer to Rules 41.4.1; 41.4.2; 41.4.3; 41.4.4; 41.4.5 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.12 Change of Ownership. A change of ownership requires prior notification to 
the licensing agency and approval for a new license before the change is 
<<<PAGE 543>>>
 
543 
  
effective. When a change of ownership of an REH is contemplated, the REH 
and the proposed new owner shall notify the licensing agency, in writing, at 
least 30 days prior to the proposed date of change. The notification shall 
include a full disclosure of the proposed new ownership structure, identifying 
all persons and entities with a direct or indirect ownership or controlling 
interest of five percent (5%) or more, including the ultimate beneficial 
ownership, and all other documents as required by the licensing agency. A 
new license is required upon a change of ownership.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 41.85.13 Governing Authority. The REH shall have an organized governing body, or 
designated person(s), that has overall responsibility for the conduct of the REH, 
is responsible for the management of the facility and appointment of the medical 
staff, and ensures compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws 
and regulations. 
The governing body shall adopt bylaws in accordance with legal requirements 
and with its community responsibility, identifying the purposes of the hospital 
and the means of fulfilling them, and shall at least: 
1.       Be in writing available to all members of the governing body. 
2. Contain the name of the governing body. 
3. State the manner in which the members of the governing body, the 
officers and the administrative personnel are selected, the terms 
for which they are elected or appointed, and their duties and 
responsibilities. 
4. Specify to whom authority for operation and maintenance of the 
hospital, including evaluation of hospital practices, may be 
delegated; and the methods established by the governing body for 
holding such individuals responsible. 
5. Provide a schedule of meetings of the governing body at 
sufficiently frequent intervals to permit it an evaluation of 
the performance of the hospital as an institution and to carry 
on necessary planning for the proper developments  and 
growth of the hospital, with written minutes to be kept of all 
such meetings. 
6. Provide the method of appointment, re-appointment, and removal 
of members of the medical staff. 
7. Provide mechanisms for the formal approval of the organization, 
<<<PAGE 544>>>
 
544 
  
bylaws, and rules and regulations of the medical staff and its 
department in the hospital. 
Facility Discontinuation/Closure of Service: 
Discontinuation of Service:  Facilities proposing the closure/discontinuation 
of patient medical care services that are listed on the facility’s hospital 
licensure application shall notify the Department in writing a minimum of 30 
days prior to closure and include the effective closure date. The notification to 
the Department shall include, but is not limited to: 
A. The type of services that will no longer be provided due to closure; 
B. The reason for closure; 
C. The location where the patients have been/will be transferred; 
D. The plan for storage of patient medical records; and 
E. Plan for notifying the public. 
 
Closure:  Facilities proposing the permanent closure of a hospital shall notify 
the Department in writing at of the intent to close a minimum of 30 days in 
advance of the closure date.  The notice of closure shall include, but is not 
limited to: 
 
G. Effective date of permanent closure; 
H. The number of Emergency Department beds eliminated; 
I. Summary of services being eliminated. 
J. A description of the nearest available comparable services in the 
community; 
K. The Plan for the maintenance and retention of the patient medical 
records; and 
L. On the date of closure, the license shall be returned to Department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 41.85.14. Administrator and Changes in Key Leadership. The governing body shall appoint 
a qualified administrator who is responsible for the overall management of the 
REH, in accordance with federal standards at 42 CFR § 485.510. This 
appointment shall be documented in the minutes of the governing body. The REH 
shall notify the licensing agency in writing within 15 days of any change in the 
facility’s administrator/chief executive officer or in the constituency of its 
governing body. 
<<<PAGE 545>>>
 
545 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR § 485.510 
Rule 41.85.15. Staffing and Treatment. The REH must be staffed and equipped to provide 
emergency medical care to all individuals who present to the facility. Staffing, 
including medical, nursing, and ancillary personnel, must be sufficient in number 
and qualifications to meet the requirements of the adopted federal Conditions of 
Participation at 42 CFR §485, Subpart E. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485 Subpart E. 
Rule 41.85.16. Criminal History Record Checks. The REH shall conduct criminal history record 
checks in accordance with the requirements set forth in Subchapter 6 of these 
regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-13 
Rule 41.85.17. Abuse and Neglect Reporting. The REH shall ensure the protection of all patients 
from abuse, neglect, and exploitation. The facility shall develop and implement 
written policies and procedures to ensure that all staff are aware of and comply 
with their reporting duties in accordance with the Mississippi Vulnerable Persons 
Act and any other applicable state laws regarding the reporting of suspected abuse 
or neglect of children and vulnerable adults. Such policies shall include, at a 
minimum, provisions for staff training on identifying and reporting suspected 
incidents to the appropriate state agencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; Miss. Code Ann. Title 43, Chapter 47 
Rule 41.85.18. Policies and Procedures. The REH shall develop, implement, and maintain 
written policies and procedures as necessary to ensure the health and safety of 
patients and to comply with all requirements of this Subchapter and the adopted 
federal Conditions of Participation (42 CFR Part 485, Subpart E). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485 Subpart E. 
Rule 41.85.19. Patient Rights. The REH shall develop and implement policies to protect and 
promote each patient's rights in accordance with the requirements of the adopted 
federal Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.534. 
Rule 41.85.20. Physical Plant and Environment. The REH shall be housed in a safe building that 
complies with the requirements of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) and any 
other applicable physical environment standards outlined in the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR §485.544. 
<<<PAGE 546>>>
 
546 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485.544 
Rule 41.85.21. Patient Call System. The REH shall ensure each patient has a means to request 
immediate assistance from staff, in accordance with the patient rights and physical 
environment standards set forth in the adopted federal Conditions of Participation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-1t7; 42 CFR §485.534; 42 CFR §485.544 
Rule 41.85.22. Medical Staff. Reserved. This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.512. 
Rule 41.85.23. Nursing Services. Reserved.  This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.530. 
Rule 41.85.24. Laboratory Services. Reserved. This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.518. 
Rule 41.85.25. Radiology Services. Reserved.  This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.520. 
Rule 41.85.26. Pharmacy/Pharmaceutical Services. Reserved. This topic is governed by the 
adopted federal Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.522. 
Rule 41.85.27. Nutritional Services. The REH shall have written policies and procedures for the 
provision of food and nutritional services to patients as appropriate to the services 
provided and the patient's clinical needs. This shall include, at a minimum, the 
capability to provide nourishment and therapeutic diets as ordered by a 
practitioner, particularly for patients held in observation. All food and beverage 
storage and preparation shall be in accordance with public health standards. 
Rule 41.85.28. Outpatient Services. Reserved. This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.524 Additional outpatient medical 
and health services.. 
Rule 41.85.29. Surgical Services. Reserved. This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.524 Additional outpatient medical 
and health services. . 
Rule 41.85.30. Anesthesia Services. Reserved. This topic is governed by the adopted federal 
Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.524 Additional outpatient medical 
and health services.. 
Rule 41.85.31. Quality Assessment and Performance Improvement (QAPI). 
<<<PAGE 547>>>
 
547 
  
The REH shall develop, implement, and maintain an effective, ongoing, REH-
wide, data-driven quality assessment and performance improvement program in 
accordance with the requirements of the adopted federal Conditions of 
Participation at 42 CFR § 485.536. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR § 485.536 
Rule 41.85.32. Infection Control. The REH shall meet the requirements for an infection 
prevention and control program as set forth in the adopted federal Conditions of 
Participation at 42 CFR §485.526. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485.526 
Rule 41.85.33. Medical Waste Management Plan. All generators of infectious medical waste and 
medical waste shall develop and maintain a medical waste management plan in 
accordance with the Mississippi State Department of Health's "Regulations 
Governing Medical Waste." 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.85.34. Transfer of Patients. The REH must have in effect a written transfer agreement 
with at least one certified hospital that is a Level I or Level II trauma center for 
the referral and transfer of patients requiring emergency medical care beyond the 
capabilities of the REH, in accordance with 42 CFR § 485.538.  
1. When a patient requires services beyond the capability of the REH, the REH 
must stabilize the patient within its capability and arrange for a safe, timely 
transfer to an appropriate facility in accordance with federal EMTALA 
regulations, including the provisions at 42 CFR § 489.24, and the facility's 
transfer agreements. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485.538 
Rule 41.85.35. Discharge Planning. The REH shall comply with the requirements 
of 42 CFR § 485.532. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR § 485.532 
Rule 41.85.36. Medical Records. The REH shall maintain a medical record for 
each patient in accordance with accepted professional principles and the requirements of the 
adopted federal Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR § 485.540. Records shall be confidential, 
safely stored, and preserved for a period of time not less than that set forth in Title 41, Chapter 9 
of the Mississippi Code of 1972. 
<<<PAGE 548>>>
 
548 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-61 et seq. 
Rule 41.85.37. Adverse Incident Reporting. The REH shall report to the licensing agency any of 
the following adverse incidents within 24 hours of the incident's occurrence or the 
facility's awareness of the incident:  
1. The death of a patient.  
2. Any incident, whether or not it results in death, that is a sentinel event as 
defined by the facility's accrediting organization, or that results in serious 
physical or psychological injury to a patient. The REH shall conduct a 
thorough investigation of any such incident and, upon request, provide a 
copy of the investigation report to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 41.85.38. Emergency Operations Plan (EOP). The REH shall develop and maintain a 
comprehensive emergency preparedness program that includes an emergency 
plan. The emergency plan must be based on a documented, facility-based and 
community-based risk assessment utilizing an "all-hazards" approach. The 
program and its plan must be reviewed and updated at least annually by the REH. 
1. The REH shall comply with the requirements of 42 CFR § 485.542, 
"Condition of participation: Emergency preparedness." 
2. Communications and Facility Status Reporting. The REH shall submit 
facility status reports, including but not limited to, bed availability and 
operational status, in a format and at a frequency determined by the 
Department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR §485.542 
Rule 41.85.39. Public Notification and Signage. The REH shall ensure the public is clearly 
informed of its status, scope of services, and patient rights through clear and 
conspicuous signage. 
1. REH Status: The facility must have a process for notifying patients and 
the public that the facility is a Rural Emergency Hospital and that it does 
not provide acute care inpatient services. This process shall include, at a 
minimum, clear signage at public entrances and a method for informing 
patients at the time of registration. 
 
<<<PAGE 549>>>
 
549 
  
2. EMTALA Signage: The REH shall post signage in accordance with 
federal EMTALA requirements at 42 CFR § 489.20(q), which specifies 
the posting of signs in the emergency department that conspicuously 
inform individuals of their right to a medical screening examination and 
any rights they may have under EMTALA. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17; 42 CFR § 489.20(q) 
 
CHAPTER 42 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR AMBULATORY 
SURGICAL FACILITIES 
Subchapter 1   GENERAL:  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 42.1.1 Adoption of Regulations. Under and by virtue of authority vested in it by 
Mississippi Code Annotated § 41-75-1 thru § 41-75-25 (Supplement 1986), the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, as licensing agency, does hereby adopt 
and promulgate the following rules, regulations, and standards governing 
ambulatory surgical facilities licensed to operate in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.1.2 Procedures Governing Amendments. The rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards for ambulatory surgical facilities may be amended by the licensing 
agency from time to time as necessary to promote the health, safety, and welfare 
of persons receiving services in such institutions 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.1.3 Inspections Required. Each ambulatory surgical facility for which a license has 
been issued shall be inspected by the Mississippi State Department of Health or 
by persons delegated with authority by said Mississippi State Department of 
Health at such intervals as the Department may direct.  Mississippi State 
Department of Health and/or its authorized representatives shall have the right to 
inspect construction work in progress. New ambulatory surgical facilities shall not 
be licensed without having first been inspected for compliance with these rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 2       DEFINITIONS 
Rule 42.2.1 A list of selected terms often used in connection with these rules, regulations, and 
standards follows: 
1. Administrator. The term "administrator" shall mean a person who is delegated the 
responsibility for the implementation and proper application of policies and 
programs established by the governing authority of the facility and is delegated 
<<<PAGE 550>>>
 
550 
  
responsibility for the establishment of safe and effective administrative 
management, control and operation of the services provided. This definition applies 
to a person designated as Chief Executive Officer or other similar title. 
2. Ambulatory Surgery. Shall mean surgical procedures that are more complex than 
office procedures performed under local anesthesia, but less complex than major 
procedures requiring prolonged postoperative monitoring and hospital care to 
ensure safe recovery and desirable results. General anesthesia is used in most cases. 
The patient must arrive at the facility and expect to be discharged on the same day. 
Ambulatory surgery shall only be performed by physicians or dentists licensed to 
practice in the State of Mississippi. 
3. Ambulatory Surgical Facility. Shall mean a publicly or privately owned 
institution which is primarily organized, constructed, renovated or otherwise 
established for the purpose of providing elective surgical treatment of outpatients 
whose recovery, under normal and routine circumstances, will not require inpatient 
care. Such facility as herein defined does not include the offices of private 
physicians or dentists whether practicing individually or in groups, but does include 
organizations or facilities primarily engaged in such outpatient surgery whether 
using the name "ambulatory surgical facility" or a similar or different name. Such 
organization or facility, if in any manner considered to be operated or owned by a 
hospital or a hospital holding, leasing or management company, either for profit or 
not for profit, is required to comply with all Mississippi State Department of Health 
ambulatory surgical licensure standards governing a hospital affiliated facility as 
adopted under Section 41-91-1 et seq, Mississippi Code of 1972; provided that such 
organization or facility does not intend to seek federal certification as an 
ambulatory surgical facility as provided for at 42 CFR, Parts 405 and 416. Further, 
if such organization or facility is to be operated or owned by a hospital or a hospital 
holding, leasing or management company and intends to seek federal certification 
as an ambulatory facility, then such facility is considered to be freestanding and 
must comply with all Mississippi State Department of Health ambulatory surgical 
licensure standards governing a freestanding facility.  If such organization or 
facility is to be owned or operated by an entity or person other than a hospital or 
hospital holding, leasing or management company, then such organization or 
facility must comply with all Mississippi State Department of Health ambulatory 
surgical facility standards governing a freestanding facility. 
4. Hospital Affiliated Ambulatory Surgical Facility. Shall mean a separate and 
distinct organized unit of a hospital or a building owned, leased, rented or utilized 
by a hospital and located in the same county in which the hospital is located for the 
primary purpose of performing ambulatory surgery procedures. Such facility is not 
required to be separately licensed under the statute and may operate under the 
hospital's license in compliance with all applicable requirements of Section 41-9-1 
et seq. 
5. Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical Facility. Shall mean a separate and distinct 
facility or a separate and distinct organized unit of a hospital owned, leased, rented 
<<<PAGE 551>>>
 
551 
  
or utilized by a hospital or other persons for the primary purpose of performing 
ambulatory surgery procedures. Such facility must be separately licensed as herein 
defined and must comply with all licensing standards promulgated by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health under this statute regarding freestanding 
ambulatory surgical facility. Further, such facility must be a separate, identifiable 
entity and must be physically, administratively and financially independent and 
distinct from other operations of any other health facility, and shall maintain a 
separate organized medical and administrative staff. Furthermore, once licensed as 
a freestanding ambulatory surgical facility, such facility shall not become a 
component of any other health facility without securing a certificate of need to do 
such. 
6. Anesthesiologist. A physician whose specialized training and experience qualify 
him/her to administer anesthetic agents and to monitor the patient under the 
influence of these agents.  
7. Anesthetist. A physician or dentist qualified and trained to administer anesthetic 
agents or a certified registered nurse qualified to administer anesthetic agents. 
8. Change of Ownership. The term "change of ownership" includes, but is not 
limited to, intervivos gifts, purchases, transfers, leases, cash and/or stock 
transaction or other comparable arrangements whenever the person or entity 
acquires an interest of fifty percent (50%) or more of the facility or services. 
Changes of ownership from partnerships, single proprietorships or corporations to 
another form of ownership are specifically included, provided, however, "change of 
ownership" shall not include any inherited interest acquired as a result of a 
testamentary instrument or under the laws of descent and distribution of the State of 
Mississippi. 
9. Dentist. A person who holds a valid license issued by the Mississippi State Board 
of Dental Examiners to practice dentistry. 
10. Director of Nursing. The term "director of nursing" means a registered nurse 
with supervisory and administrative ability who is responsible to the chief 
executive officer for supervision of nursing service for entire facility at all times. 
Qualifications of directory of nursing:   
a. Shall be a graduate of a professional school of nursing. 
b. Shall currently be licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing. 
c. Shall have at least one year of experience in medical surgical nursing and one 
year of surgical nursing and one year of surgical environment nursing. 
d. Shall have good mental and physical health. 
11. Governing Authority. The term "governing authority" shall mean owner(s) 
associations, county board of supervisors, board of trustees, or any other 
<<<PAGE 552>>>
 
552 
  
comparable designation of an individual or group of individuals who have the 
purpose of owning, acquiring, constructing, equipping, operating, and/or 
maintaining ambulatory surgical facilities and exercising control over the affairs 
and in which the ultimate responsibility and authority of the facility is vested. 
12. Licensed Practical Nurse. "Licensed practical nurse" (LPN) means any person 
licensed as such by the Mississippi State Board of Nursing. 
13. License. The term "license" shall mean the document issued by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health and signed by the Executive Director of the Mississippi 
State Department of Health. Licensure shall constitute authority to receive patients 
and perform the services included within the scope of these rules, regulations, and 
minimum standards. 
14. Licensee. The term "licensee" shall mean the individual to whom the license is 
issued and upon whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the ambulatory 
surgical facility in compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards. 
15. Licensing Agency. The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
16. Local Hospital. As referenced in Rule 42.10.1(1), local hospital means that the 
ASC is to consider the most appropriate facility in which the ASC will transport its 
patients in the event of an emergency. 
17. Nursing Personnel. The term "nursing personnel" shall mean registered nurses, 
graduate nurses, licensed practical nurses, nurses' aides, orderlies, attendants, and 
other rendering patient care. 
18. Patient. The term "patient" shall mean a person admitted to the ambulatory 
surgical facility by and upon the recommendation of a physician and who is to 
receive medical care recommended by the physician. 
19. Pharmacy. The term "pharmacy" shall mean a place licensed by the Mississippi 
State Department of Pharmacy where prescriptions, drugs, medicines and chemicals 
are offered for sale, compounded or dispensed, and shall include all places whose 
titles may imply the sale, offering for sale, compounding or dispensing of 
prescriptions, drugs, medicines or chemicals. 
20. Pharmacist. The term "pharmacist" shall mean a person currently licensed by the 
Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy to practice pharmacy in Mississippi under the 
provisions contained in current state statutes. 
21. Physician. The term "physician" shall mean a person currently licensed by the 
Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure to practice medicine and surgery in 
Mississippi under provisions contained in current state statutes. 
<<<PAGE 553>>>
 
553 
  
22. Registered Nurse. The term "registered nurse" (R.N.) shall mean a professional 
registered nurse currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing in 
accordance with the provisions contained in current state statutes. 
23. Person. The term "person" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, 
company, association, or joint stock association, or any licensee herein or the legal 
successor thereof.  
24. May. The term "may" indicates permission. 
25. Shall. The term "shall" indicates mandatory requirement(s). 
26. Should. The term "should" indicates recommendation(s). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 3   TYPE OF LICENSE 
Rule 42.3.1 Regular License. A license shall be issued to each ambulatory surgical facility 
that meets the requirements as set forth in these regulations. In addition, no 
ambulatory surgical facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the 
regulations establishing minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire, 
as well as for protection of life and property against fire.  Compliance with the 
N.F.P.A. Life Safety Code 101 for doctors' offices and clinics shall be required. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.3.2 Provisional License. Within its discretion, the Mississippi State Department of 
Health may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of 
noncompliance with these regulations exists in one or more particulars. A 
provisional license shall be issued only if the Mississippi State Department of 
Health is satisfied that preparations are being made to qualify for a regular license 
and that the health and safety of patients will not be endangered meanwhile.  A 
new ambulatory surgical facility may be issued a provision license prior to 
opening and subsequent to meeting the required minimum staffing personnel.  
The provisional license issued under this condition shall be valid until the 
issuance of a regular license, or June 30, following date of issuance of the 
provisional license, issued for any reason, shall not exceed 12 months and cannot 
be reissued. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 4   LICENSING 
Rule 42.4.1  Application and Annual Report. Application for a license or renewal of a 
license shall be made in writing to the Mississippi State Department of Health on 
forms provided by the Department which shall contain such information as the 
Mississippi State Department of Health may require. The application shall require 
<<<PAGE 554>>>
 
554 
  
reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability to comply with these rules, regulations, 
and minimum standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.4.2 Fees. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, either by  business check, money order, 
or electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.4.3  Annual Reports and Posting of License. The licensee shall submit an annual 
report in a format as established by the licensing agency. Licenses are issued 
only for the premises and person or persons named in the application and shall 
not be transferable or assignable. Licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place 
on the licensed premises.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-1 
Rule 42.4.4 Name. Every ambulatory surgical facility designated by a permanent and 
distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not be 
changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and receiving 
written approval of the change from the licensing agency. Such notice shall 
specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed. Only the 
official name by which the ambulatory surgical facility is licensed shall be used in 
telephone listings, on stationery, in advertising, etc. Two or more ambulatory 
surgical facilities shall not be licensed under similar names in the same vicinity. 
No freestanding ambulatory surgical facility shall include the word "hospital" in 
its name. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.4.5  Issuance of License. All licenses issued by the Mississippi State Department of 
Health shall set forth the name of the ambulatory surgical facility, the location, 
the name of the licensee, and the license number. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.4.6 Separate License. A separate license shall be required for ambulatory surgical 
facilities maintained on separate premises even though under the same 
management. However, separate licenses are not required for buildings on the 
same ground which are under the same management. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
 
<<<PAGE 555>>>
 
555 
  
Rule 42.4.7 Expiration of License. Each license shall expire on June 30, following the date 
of issuance. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.4.8  Denial or Revocation of License: Hearings and Review. The Mississippi State 
Department of Health after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant 
or licensee, is authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in 
which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with the 
requirements established under the law and these regulations. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 5   RIGHT OF APPEAL 
Rule 42.5.1 Provision for hearing and appeal following denial or revocation of license is as 
follows: 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.5.2 Administrative Decision. The Mississippi State Department of Health will 
provide an opportunity for a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is 
dissatisfied with administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of 
license. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license. Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of such service at which agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) days 
from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law. A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of applicant or licensee or served personally upon the 
applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision to the Chancery 
Court in the county in which the facility is located, in the manner prescribed in 
Section 43-11-23, Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended. An additional period of 
time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
<<<PAGE 556>>>
 
556 
  
Rule 42.5.3 Penalties. Any person or persons or other entity or entities establishing, managing 
or operating an ambulatory surgical facility or conducting the business of an 
ambulatory surgical facility without the required license, or which otherwise 
violate any of the provisions of this act or the Mississippi State Department of 
Health, as amended, or the rules, regulations or standards promulgated in 
furtherance of any law in which the Mississippi State Department of Health has 
authority therefore shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions of Section 41-7-
209, Mississippi Code of 1972. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 6   ADMINISTRATION:  GOVERNING AUTHORITY 
Rule 42.6.1 Each facility shall be under the ultimate responsibility and control of an 
identifiable governing body, person, or persons.  The facility's governing 
authority shall adopt bylaws, rules and regulations which shall: 
1. Specify by name the person to whom responsibility for operation and maintenance 
of the facility is delegated and methods established by the governing authority for 
holding such individuals responsible. 
2. Provide for at least annual meetings of the governing authority if the governing 
authority consists of two or more individuals. Minutes shall be maintained of such 
meetings. 
3. Require policies and procedures which includes provisions for administration and 
use of the facility, compliance, personnel, quality assurance, procurement of 
outside services and consultations, patient care policies and services offered. 
4. Provide for annual reviews and evaluations of the facility's policies, management, 
and operation. 
a. When services such as dietary, laundry, or therapy services are purchased from 
other the governing authority shall be responsible to assure the supplier(s) meets 
the same local and state standards the facility would have to meet if it were 
providing those services itself using its own staff. 
b. The governing authority shall provide for the selection and appointment of the 
medicaid and dental staff and the granting of clinical privileges and shall be 
responsible for the professional conduct of these persons. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 7   ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 
Rule 42.7.1 Chief Executive Officer or Administrator. 
1. The governing authority shall appoint a qualified person as chief executive officer 
of the facility to represent the governing authority and shall define his/her 
<<<PAGE 557>>>
 
557 
  
authority and duties in writing. He/she shall be responsible for the management of 
the facility, implementation of the policies of the governing authority and 
authorized and empowered to carry out the provisions of these regulations. 
2. The chief executive officer shall designate, in writing, a qualified person to act in 
his/her behalf during his/her absence. In the absence of the chief executive officer, 
the person on the grounds of the facility who is designated by the chief executive 
officer to be in charge of the facility shall have reasonable access to all areas in 
the facility related to patient care and to the operation of the physical plant. 
3. When there is a planned change in ownership or in the chief executive officer, the 
governing authority of the facility shall notify the Mississippi State Department of 
Health. The chief executive officer shall be responsible for the preparation of 
written facility policies and procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.7.2 Administrative Records.  The following essential documents and references 
shall be on file in the administrative office of the facility: 
1. Appropriate documents evidencing control and ownerships, such as deeds, leases, 
or corporation or partnerships papers. 
2. Bylaws and policies and procedures of the governing authority and professional 
staff. 
3. Minutes of the governing authority meetings. 
4. Minutes of the facility's professional and administrative staff meetings. 
5. A current copy of the ambulatory surgical facility regulations. 
6. Reports of inspections, reviews, and corrective actions taken related to licensure. 
7. Contracts and agreements for all services not provided directly by the facility. 
8. All permits and certificates shall be appropriately displayed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13  
Subchapter 8   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 42.8.1 Personnel Records. A record of each employee should be maintained which 
includes the following to help provide quality assurance in the facility: 
1.  Application for employment. 
2. Written references and/or a record of verbal references. 
3. Verification of all training and experience, and licensure, certification, registration 
and/or renewals. 
<<<PAGE 558>>>
 
558 
  
4. Performance appraisals. 
5. Initial and subsequent health clearances. 
6. Disciplinary and counseling actions. 
7. Commendations. 
8. Employee incident reports. 
9. Record of orientation to the facility, its policies and procedures and the employee's 
position. Personnel records shall be confidential. Representatives of the licensing 
agency conducting an inspection of the facility shall have the right to inspect 
personnel records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.8.2 Job Descriptions. 
1. Every position shall have a written description which adequately describes the 
duties of the position. 
2. Each job description shall include position title, authority, specific responsibilities 
and minimum qualifications. Qualifications shall include education, training, 
experience, special abilities and license or certification required. 
3. Job descriptions shall be kept current and given to each employee when assigned to 
the position and whenever the job description is changed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.8.3 Health Examination. As a minimum, each employee shall have a pre-employment 
health examination by a physician. The examination is to be repeated annually 
and more frequently if indicated to ascertain freedom from communicable 
diseases. The extent of the annual examinations shall be determined by a 
committee consisting of the medical director, administrator and director of 
nursing, and documentation of the health examination shall be included in the 
employee’s personnel folder. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 9   MEDICAL STAFF ORGANIZATION 
Rule 42.9.1 There shall be a single organized medical staff that has the overall responsibility 
for the quality of all clinical care provided to patients, and for the ethical conduct 
and professional practices of its members, as well as for accounting therefore to 
the governing authority. The manner in which the medical staff is organized shall 
be consistent with the facility's documented staff organization bylaws, rules and 
<<<PAGE 559>>>
 
559 
  
regulations, and pertain to the setting where the facility is located. The medical 
staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and the rules and regulations of the governing 
authority shall require that patients are admitted to the facility only upon the 
recommendation of a licensed physician and that a licensed physician be 
responsible for diagnosis and all medical care and treatment.  The organization of 
the medical staff, and its bylaws, rules and regulations, shall be approved by the 
facility's governing authority.  The medical staff shall strive to assure that each 
member is qualified for membership and shall encourage the optimal level of 
professional performance of its members through the appointment/reappointment 
procedure, the specific delineation of clinical privileges, and the periodic 
reappraisal of each staff member according to the established provisions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 42.9.2 Qualifications. The appointment and reappointment of medical staff members 
shall be based upon well-defined, written criteria that are related to the goals and 
objectives of the facility as stated in the bylaws, rules and regulations of the 
medical staff of the governing authority., Upon application or appointment to the 
medical staff, each individual must sign a statement to the effect that he/she has 
read and agrees to be bound by the medical staff and governing authority bylaws, 
rules and regulations.  The initial appointment and continued medical staff 
membership shall be dependent upon professional competence and ethical 
practice in keeping with the qualifications, standards, and requirements set forth 
in the professional staff and governing authority bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.3 Method of Selection. Each facility is responsible for developing a process of 
appointment to the medical staff whereby it can satisfactorily determine that the 
person is appropriately licensed and qualified for the privileges and 
responsibilities he/she seeks. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.4 Privilege Delineation. Privileges shall be delineated for each member of the 
medical staff, regardless of the type and size of the facility.  The delineation of 
privileges shall be based on all verified information available in the applicant's or 
staff member's credentials file.  Whatever method is used to delineate clinical 
privileges for each medical staff applicant, there must be evidence that the 
granting of such privileges is based on the member's demonstrated current 
competence. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.5 Clinical Privileges Shall Be Facility-Specific. The medical staff shall delineate in 
its bylaws, rules and regulations, the qualifications, status, clinical duties, and 
responsibilities of consultant physicians who are not members of the medical and 
<<<PAGE 560>>>
 
560 
  
dental staff but whose services require that they be processed through the usual 
medical staff channels.  The training, experience, and demonstrated competence 
of individuals in such categories shall be sufficient to permit their performing 
their assigned functions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.6 Reappointment. The facility's medical staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall 
provide for review and reappointment of each medical staff member at least once 
every three years. The reappointment process should include a review of the 
individual's status by a designated medical staff committee, such as the 
credentials committee.  When indicated, the credentials committee shall require 
the individual to submit evidence of his/her current health status that verifies the 
individual's ability to discharge his/her responsibility.  The committee's review of 
the clinical privileges of a staff member for reappointment should include the 
individual's past and current professional performance as well as his/her 
adherence to the governing authority and professional staff bylaws, rules and 
regulations.  The medical staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall limit the time 
within which the medical staff reappointment and privilege delineation processes 
must be completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.7 Professional Staff. Each facility shall have at all times a designated medical 
director who shall be a physician and who shall be responsible for the direction 
and coordination of all medical aspects of facility programs. Each members of the 
medical staff shall have like privileges in at least one local hospital. In the case of 
an abortion facility, the facility must comply with all state and federal laws and 
regulations, including , but not limited to,  provisions of MS. Code Ann. §41-75-
1.  There shall be a minimum of one licensed registered nurse per six patients (at 
any one time) at the clinic when patients are present, excluding the director of 
nursing.  All facility personnel, medical and others, shall be licensed to perform 
the services they render when such services require licensure under the laws of 
the State of Mississippi.  Anesthetic agents shall be administered by an 
anesthesiologist, a physician, or a certified registered nurse anesthetist under the 
supervision of a board-qualified or certified anesthesiologist or operating 
physician, who is actually on the premises. After the administration of an 
anesthetic, patients shall be constantly attended by an M.D., D.O., R.N., or a 
L.P.N. supervised directly by an R.N., until reacted and able to summon aid.  All 
employees of the facility providing direct patient care shall be trained in 
emergency resuscitation at least annually. [Section 41-75-1(f)]. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.9.8 Reporting Requirements.  Each abortion facility shall report monthly to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health such information as may be required by 
<<<PAGE 561>>>
 
561 
  
the department in its rules and regulations for each abortion performed by such 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 10 PATIENT TRANSFER 
Rule 42.10.1 Transfer Agreement.  
1. The ASC must have an effective procedure for the immediate transfer, to a hospital, 
of patients requiring medical care beyond the capabilities of the ASC. The hospital 
must be a local, Medicare participating hospital or a local non-participating hospital 
that meets the requirements for payment of emergency services. See Rule 42.2.1 
(16) for definition of “local hospital”. 
a. The ASC must have a transfer agreement with a hospital that meets the 
requirements, as stated above, or  
b. Ensure that all physicians performing surgery in the ASC have admitting 
privileges at a hospital that meets the regulatory requirements of above.  
2. If the ASC does not have a transfer agreement, then the ASC must maintain 
documentation of the current admitting privileges of all physicians who perform 
surgery at the ASC at local hospitals that will satisfy the regulatory requirements of 
Rule 42.10.1 (1).SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 11 SAFETY 
Rule 42.11.1 The governing authority shall develop written policies and procedures designed to 
enhance safety within the facility and on its grounds and minimize hazards to 
patients, staff and visitors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.11.2 The policies and procedures shall include establishment of the following: 
1. Safety rules and practices pertaining to personnel, equipment, gases, liquids, drugs; 
2. Provisions for reporting and the investigation of accidental events regarding 
patients, visitors and personnel (incidents) and corrective action taken; 
3. Provision for dissemination of safety-related information to employees and users of 
the facility; and 
4. Provision for syringe and needle storage, handling and disposal. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
 
<<<PAGE 562>>>
 
562 
  
Subchapter 12 HOUSEKEEPING 
Rule 42.12.1 Operating rooms shall be appropriately cleaned in accordance with established 
written procedures after each operation. Recovery rooms shall be maintained in a 
clean condition.  Adequate housekeeping staff shall be employed to fulfill the 
above requirement. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 13 LINEN AND LAUNDRY 
Rule 42.13.1 An adequate supply of clean linen or disposable materials shall be maintained. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.13.2 Provisions for proper laundering of linen and washable goods shall be made.  
Soiled and clean linen shall be handled and stored separately. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.13.3 Sufficient supply of cloth or disposable towels shall be available so that a fresh 
towel can be used after each hand washing.  Towels shall not be shared. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 14 SANITATION 
Rule 42.14.1 All parts of the facility, the premises and equipment shall be kept clean and free 
of insects, rodents, litter and rubbish.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.14.2 All garbage and waste shall be collected, stored and disposed of in a manner 
designed to prevent the transmission of disease. Containers shall be washed and 
sanitized before being returned to work areas.  Disposable type containers shall 
not be reused. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 15 PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE 
Rule 42.15.1 A schedule of preventive maintenance shall be developed for all of the surgical 
equipment in the surgical suite to assure satisfactory operation when needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 16 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS 
Rule 42.16.1 The facility shall have a posted plan for evacuation of patients, staff, and visitors 
in case of fire or other emergency. 
<<<PAGE 563>>>
 
563 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.16.2 Fire drills: 
1. At least one drill shall be held every three months for every employee to familiarize 
employees with the drill procedure. Reports of the drills shall be maintained with 
records of attendance. 
2. Upon identification of procedural problems with regard to the drills, records shall 
show that corrective action has been taken. 
3. There shall be an ongoing training program for all personnel concerning aspects of 
fire safety and the disaster plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 17 MEDICAL RECORD SERVICES 
Rule 42.17.1 Medical Record System. A medical record is maintained in accordance with 
accepted professional principles for every patient admitted and treated in the 
facility. The medical record system shall be under the supervision of a designated 
person who has demonstrated through relevant experience the ability to perform 
the required functions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.2 Facilities. A room or area shall be designated within the facility for medical 
records.  The area shall be sufficiently large and adequately equipped to permit 
the proper processing and storing of records. All medical records must be 
accessible and easily retrieved. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.3 Ownership. Medical records shall be the property of the facility and shall not be 
removed except by subpoena or court order. These records shall be protected 
against loss, destruction and unauthorized use. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.4 Preservation of Records. Medical records shall be preserved either in the 
original form or by microfilm for a period of not less than ten years. In the case of 
minor the record is to be retained until the patient becomes of age, plus seven 
years. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.5 Individual Patient Records. Each patient's medical record shall include at least 
the following information: 
<<<PAGE 564>>>
 
564 
  
1. Patient identification, including the patient's full name, sex, address, date of birth, 
next of kin and patient number. 
2. Admitting diagnosis. 
3. Preoperative history and physical examination pertaining to the procedure to be 
performed. 
4. Anesthesia reports. 
5. Operative report. 
6. Pertinent laboratory, pathology and X-ray reports. 
7. Preoperative and postoperative orders. 
8. Discharge note and discharge diagnosis. 
9. Informed consent. 
10. Nurses' notes: 
a. Admission and preoperative. 
b. Recovery and discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.6 Completion of Medical Records. All medical records shall be completed 
promptly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.17.7 Indexes. All medical records should be indexed according to disease, operation, 
physician, and patient name. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 18 Patient Care:  Nursing Service 
Rule 42.18.1 Nursing Staff. The ambulatory surgical facility shall maintain an organized 
nursing staff to provide high quality nursing care for the needs of the patients and 
be responsible to the ambulatory surgical facility for the professional performance 
of its members. The ambulatory surgical facility nursing service shall be under the 
direction of a legally and professionally qualified registered nurse. There shall be 
a sufficient number of duly licensed registered nurses on duty at all times to plan, 
assign, supervise, and evaluate nursing care, as well as to give patients the nursing 
care that requires the judgment and specialized skills of a registered nurse. 
<<<PAGE 565>>>
 
565 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.2 Director of Nursing Service. The director of nursing service shall be qualified by 
education, medical-surgical nursing and surgery experience of one year each, and 
demonstrated ability to organize, coordinate, and evaluate the work of the service. 
He/she shall be qualified in the fields of nursing and administration consistent 
with the complexity and scope of operation of the ambulatory surgical facility and 
shall be responsible to the administrator for the developing and implementing 
policies and procedures of the service in the ambulatory surgical facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.3 Staffing Pattern. A staffing pattern shall be developed for each nursing care unit 
(preoperative unit, surgical suite, recovery and postoperative unit). The staffing 
pattern shall provide for sufficient nursing personnel and for adequate supervision 
and direction by registered nurses consistent with the size and complexity of the 
ambulatory surgical facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.4 Nursing Care Plan. There shall be evidence established that the ambulatory 
surgical facility nursing service provides safe, efficient and therapeutically 
effective nursing care through the planning of each patient's preoperative, 
operative, recovery and postoperative care and the effective implementation of the 
plans.  A registered nurse must plan, supervise and evaluate the nursing care of 
each patient from admission to discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.5 Licensed Practical Nurse. Licensed practical nurses who are currently licensed 
to practice within the state, as well as other ancillary nursing personnel, may be 
used to give nursing care that does not require the skill and judgment of a 
registered nurse. Their performance shall be supervised by one or more registered 
nurses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.6 Nursing Service Evaluation. To develop better patterns of utilization of nursing 
personnel, periodic evaluation of the activities and effectiveness of the nursing 
staff should be conducted as a part of quality assurance. Evaluations should be 
done after the first 90-day probationary period, then annually thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.7 Nursing Service Organization. The ambulatory surgical facility nursing service 
shall have a current written organization plan that delineates its functional 
structure and its mechanisms for cooperative planning and decision making. This 
plan shall be an integral part of the overall ambulatory surgical facility plan and 
shall: 
<<<PAGE 566>>>
 
566 
  
1.  Be made available to all nursing personnel. 
2. Be reviewed periodically (yearly) and revised as necessary. 
3. Reflect the staffing pattern for nursing personnel throughout the ambulatory 
surgical facility. 
4. Delineate the functions for which nursing service is responsible. 
5. Indicate all positions required to carry out such functions. 
6. Contain job descriptions for each position classification in nursing service that 
delineates the functions, responsibilities, and desired qualifications of each 
classification, and should be made available to nursing personnel at the time of 
employment. 
7. Indicate the lines of communication within nursing service. 
8. Define the relationships of nursing service to all other services and departments in 
the ambulatory surgical facility. 
9. In ambulatory surgical facilities where the size of the nursing staff permits, nursing 
committees shall be formally organized to facilitate the establishment and 
attainment of goals and objectives of the nursing service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.8 Policies and Procedures.  Written nursing care and administrative policies and 
procedures shall be developed to provide the nursing staff with acceptable 
methods of meeting its responsibilities and achieving projected goals through 
realistic, attainable goals.  In planning, decision making, and formulation of 
policies that affect the operation of nursing service, the nursing care of patients, or 
the patient's environment, the recommendations of representatives of nursing 
service shall be considered.  Nursing care policies and procedures shall be 
consistent with professionally recognized standards of nursing practice and shall 
be in accordance with Nurse Practice Act of the State of Mississippi and AORN 
Standards of Practice.  Policies shall include statements relating to at least the 
following: 
1. Noting diagnostic and therapeutic orders. 
2. Assignment of preoperative and postoperative care of patients. 
3. Administration of medications. 
4. Charting of nursing personnel. 
5. Infection control. 
<<<PAGE 567>>>
 
567 
  
6. Patient and personnel safety. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.9 Written copies of the procedure manual shall be available to the nursing staff in 
every nursing care unit and service area and to other services and departments in 
the ambulatory surgical facility. The nursing procedure manual should be used to: 
1. Provide a basis for staff development to enable new nursing personnel to acquire 
local knowledge and current skills through established orientation programs. 
2. Provide a ready reference or procedures for all nursing personnel. 
3. Standardize procedures and equipment. 
4. Provide a basis for evaluation and study to ensure continued improvements in 
techniques. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.10 The ambulatory surgical facility nursing policies and procedures shall be 
developed, periodically reviewed, and revised as necessary by nursing 
representatives in cooperation with administration, the medical staff, and other 
facility services and departments concerned. All revisions shall be dated to 
indicate the date of the latest review. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.18.11 In-Service Education and Meetings. An in-service education programs and 
meetings of the nursing staff shall be provided for the improvement of existing 
aseptic and nursing practices; obtaining new knowledge and skills applicable to 
operating room nursing; keep personnel informed of changes in policies and 
procedures and discuss nursing service problems in the ambulatory surgical 
facility.  The in-service program shall be planned, scheduled, documented and 
held on a continuing or monthly basis.  There should be provisions for 
participation in appropriate training programs for the safe and effective use of 
diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for CPR and for other aspects of critical 
care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 19 SURGERY 
Rule 42.19.1 The ambulatory surgical facility shall have effective policies and procedures 
regarding surgical privileges, maintenance of the operating rooms and evaluation 
of the surgical patient. 
<<<PAGE 568>>>
 
568 
  
1. Surgical privileges according to covered surgical procedures shall be delineated 
for all physicians doing surgery in accordance with the competencies of each 
physician. A roster shall be kept in the confidential files of the operating room 
supervisor and in the files of the  administrator. 
2. The operating room register shall be complete and up-to-date. 
3. There shall be a complete history and physical work-up in the chart of every 
patient prior to surgery plus documentation of a properly executed informed 
patient consent. 
4. There shall be adequate provision for immediate postoperative care. 
5. An operative report describing techniques and findings shall be written or dictated  
immediately following surgery and signed by the surgeon. 
6. A procedure shall exist in establishing a program for identifying and preventing 
infections, maintaining a sanitary environment, and reporting results to 
appropriate authorities. The operating surgeon shall be required to report back to 
the facility an infection for infection control follow-up. 
7. The operating rooms shall be supervised by an experienced registered 
professional nurse. 
8. The following equipment shall be available to the operating suite: emergency call 
system, oxygen, mechanical ventilatory assistance equipment, including airways 
and manual breathing bag, cardiac defibrillator, cardiac monitoring equipment, 
thoracotomy set, tracheotomy set, laryngoscopes and endotracheal tubes, suction 
equipment, emergency drugs and supplies specified by the medical staff.  
Personnel trained in the use of emergency equipment and in cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation must be available whenever there is a patient in the ambulatory 
surgical facility. 
9. Precautions shall be taken to eliminate shock hazards, including use of shoe 
covers. 
10. Rules and regulations or policies related to the operating room shall be available 
for ambulatory surgical facility personnel and physicians. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 20 ANESTHESIA 
Rule 42.20.1 The department of anesthesia shall have effective policies and procedures 
regarding staff privileges, the administration of anesthetics, and the maintenance 
of strict safety control. 
<<<PAGE 569>>>
 
569 
  
1. A preoperative evaluation of the patient within 24 hours of surgery shall be done by 
a physician to determine the risk or anesthesia and of the procedure to be 
performed. 
2. Before discharge from the ambulatory surgical facility, each patient shall be 
evaluated by an anesthesiologist or certified registered nurse anesthetist for proper 
anesthesia recovery and discharged in the company of a responsible adult unless 
otherwise specified by the physician. 
3. Anesthetic agents shall be administered by only a qualified anesthesiologist, a 
physician qualified to administer anesthetic agents or a certified registered nurse 
anesthetist. 
4. The department of anesthesia shall be responsible for all anesthetic agents 
administered in the ambulatory surgical facility. 
5. In the ambulatory surgical facility where there is no department of anesthesia, the 
department of surgery shall assume the responsibility of establishing general 
policies and supervising the administration of anesthetic agents. 
6. Safety precautions shall be in accordance with N.F.P.A. Bulletin 56-A, 1981. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 21 DEPARTMENT OF DENTISTRY 
Rule 42.21.1 According to the procedure established for the appointment of the medical staff, 
one or more licensed dentists may be appointed to the staff. If this service is 
organized, its organization is comparable to that of other services or departments. 
1. The above members shall be qualified legally, professionally, and ethically for the 
positions to which they are appointed. 
2. Patients admitted for the above services shall be admitted by a physician. 
3. There shall be medical history done and recorded by a member of the medical staff 
before surgery is done and a physician in attendance who is responsible for the 
medical care of the patient. 
4. There shall be specific bylaws concerning dentists and combined with the medical 
staff by-laws. 
5. The staff bylaws and regulations shall specifically delineate the rights and 
privileges of the dentists. 
6. Complete records, both medical and surgical, shall be required on each patient and 
shall be a part of the ambulatory surgical facility records. 
<<<PAGE 570>>>
 
570 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 22 SANITARY ENVIRONMENT 
Rule 42.22.1 The ambulatory surgical facility shall provide a safe and sanitary environment, 
properly constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of 
patients. 
1. An infection committee, or comparable arrangement, composed or members of the 
medical staff, nursing staff, administration and other services of the ambulatory 
surgical facility, shall be established and shall be responsible for investigating, 
controlling and preventing infections, documentation of such meetings and an 
attendance roster. 
2. There shall be written procedures to govern the use of aseptic techniques and 
procedures in all areas of the ambulatory surgical facility. 
3. To keep infections at a minimum, such procedures and techniques shall be regularly 
by the infection committee annually. 
4. Continuing education shall be provided to all ambulatory surgical facility personnel 
on causes, effects, transmission, prevention, and elimination of infection on an 
annual basis. 
5. A continuing process shall be enforced for inspection and reporting of any 
ambulatory surgical facility employee with an infection who may be in contact 
with patients on the patient's environment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 23 CENTRAL STERILE SUPPLY 
Rule 42.23.1 Policies and procedures shall be maintained for method of control used in relation 
to the sterilization of supplies and water and a written policy requiring sterile 
supplies to be reprocessed at specific time periods. These areas shall be separated: 
1. Receiving and clean-up area, to contain a two-compartment sink with two drain-
boards. 
2. Pack make-up shall have autoclaves, work counter and unsterile storage. 
3. Sterile storage area should have pass-through to corridor. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 24 PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES 
Rule 42.24.1 Administering Drugs and Medicines. Drugs and medicines shall not be 
administered to patients unless ordered by a physician duly licensed to prescribe 
<<<PAGE 571>>>
 
571 
  
drugs. Such orders shall be in writing and signed personally by the physician who 
prescribes the drug or medicine. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.2 Medicine Storage. Medicines and drugs maintained on the nursing unit for daily 
administration shall be properly stored and safe-guarded in enclosures of 
sufficient size, and which are not accessible to unauthorized persons. Only 
authorized personnel shall have access to storage enclosures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.3 Safety. Pharmacies and drug rooms shall be provided with safeguards to prevent 
entrance of unauthorized persons, including bars on accessible windows and locks 
on doors. Controlled drugs shall be stored in a securely constructed room or 
cabinet, in accordance with applicable federal and state laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.4 Narcotic Permit. An in-house pharmacy shall procure a state controlled drug 
permit if a stock of controlled drugs is to be maintained.  The permit shall be 
displayed in a prominent location. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.5 Records. Records shall be kept of all stock supplies of controlled substances 
giving an accounting of all items received and/or administered. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.6 Medication Orders. All oral or telephone orders for medications shall be 
received by a registered nurse, a physician or registered pharmacist and shall be 
reduced to writing on the physician's order record reflecting the prescribing 
physician and the name and title of the person who wrote the order. Telephone or 
oral orders shall be signed by the prescribing physician within 48 hours.  The use 
of standing orders will be according to written policy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.7 Pharmacy Permits. 
1. In circumstances where the facility employs a full-time or part-time pharmacist, the 
facility shall have obtained the appropriate pharmacy permit from the Mississippi 
State Board of Pharmacy. The facility shall not dispense medications to 
outpatients without the pharmacy permit. 
2. The facility may procure medications for its patients through community 
pharmacists. Individual medication containers shall be properly labeled, and shall 
be properly stored in individual patient medication bins/trays within a lockable 
area, room or cabinet. 
<<<PAGE 572>>>
 
572 
  
3. The facility may procure medications via the facility's physician's registration.  
Physicians shall administer or shall order medications to be administered to 
patients while in the facility attending physician. The only exception is in cases of 
A. above.  In any case where medication controlled substances are stocked within 
the facility, a designated individual shall be responsible for the overall supervision 
of the handling, administration, storage, record keeping and final dispensation of 
medication.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.8 Controlled Substances -- Anesthetizing Areas: Dispensing Controlled 
Substances. All controlled substances shall be dispensed to the responsible 
person (OR Supervisor, SRNA, CRNA, Anesthesiologist, etc.) designated to 
handle controlled substances in the operating room by a registered pharmacist in 
the Ambulatory Surgical Facility. When the controlled substance is dispensed, the 
following information shall be recorded into the Controlled Substance (proof-of-
use) Record. 
1. Signature of pharmacist dispensing the controlled substance. 
2. Signature of designated licensed person receiving the controlled substance. 
3. The date and time controlled substance is dispensed. 
4. The name, the strength, and quantity of controlled substance dispensed. 
5. The serial number assigned to that particular record, which corresponds to same 
number recorded in the pharmacy's dispensing record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.9 Security/Storage of Controlled Substances. When not in use, all controlled 
substances shall be maintained in a securely locked, substantially constructed 
cabinet or area. All controlled substance storage cabinets shall be permanently 
affixed. Controlled substances removed from the controlled substance cabinet 
shall not be left unattended. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.10 Controlled Substance Administration Accountability. The administration of all 
controlled substances to patients shall be carefully recorded into the anesthesia 
record. The following information shall be transferred from the anesthesia record 
to the controlled substance record by the administering practitioner during the 
shift in which the controlled substance was administered. 
1. The patient's name. 
2. The name of the controlled substance and the dosage administered. 
<<<PAGE 573>>>
 
573 
  
3. The date and time the controlled substance is administered. 
4. The signature of the practitioner administering the controlled substance. 
5. The wastage of any controlled substance. 
6. The balance of controlled substances remaining after the administration of any 
quantity of the controlled substance. 
7. Day-ending or shift-ending verification of count of balances of controlled 
substances remaining, and controlled substances administered shall be 
accomplished by two (2) designated licensed persons whose signatures shall be 
affixed to a permanent record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.11 Waste of Controlled Substances. 
1. All partially used quantities of controlled substances shall be wasted at the end of 
each case by the practitioner, in the presence of a licensed person. The quantity, 
expressed in milligrams, shall be recorded by the wasting practitioner into the 
anesthesia record and into the controlled substance record followed by his or her 
signature. The licensed record witnessing the wastage of controlled substances 
shall co-sign the controlled substance record. 
2. All unused and unopened quantities of controlled substances which have been 
removed from the controlled substance cabinet shall be returned to the cabinet by 
the practitioner at the end of each shift. 
3. Any return of controlled substances to the pharmacy in the Ambulatory Surgical 
Facility must be documented by a registered pharmacist responsible for controlled 
substance handling in the Ambulatory Surgical Facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.24.12 Verification of Controlled Substances Administration. The Ambulatory 
Surgical Facility shall implement procedures whereby, on a periodic basis, a 
registered pharmacist shall reconcile quantities of controlled substances dispensed 
in the Ambulatory Surgical Facility to the anesthetizing area against the 
controlled substance record in said area. Any discrepancies shall be reported to 
the Director of Nursing and to the Chief Executive Officer of the Ambulatory 
Surgical Facility.  Upon completion, all Controlled Substance Records shall be 
returned from the anesthetizing area to the Ambulatory Surgical Facility's 
pharmacy by the designated responsible person in the anesthetizing area. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 25 RADIOLOGY SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 574>>>
 
574 
  
Rule 42.25.1 Personnel. When the facility provides in-house radiological services a qualified 
technician shall be employed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.25.2 Reports. All X-rays shall be interpreted by a physician or a dentist when oral 
surgery is conducted and a written report of findings shall be made a part of the 
patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.25.3 Policies and Procedures. When X-ray is provided by the facility, written policies 
and procedures shall be developed for all services provided by the radiology 
department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.25.4 Physical Environment. If in-house capabilities are provided, the area shall be of 
sufficient size and arrangement to provide for personnel and patient needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.25.5 Safety. Staff personnel exposed to radiation must be checked periodically for 
amount of radiation exposure by the use of exposure meters or badges. The 
radiological equipment shall be appropriately shielded to conform to state law. It 
shall be regularly checked by state health authorities and any hazards promptly 
corrected. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 26 LABORATORY SERVICES 
Rule 42.26.1 The facility may either provide a clinical laboratory or make contractual 
arrangements with an approved outside laboratory to perform services 
commensurate with the needs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.26.2 Qualifications of Outside Laboratory. An approved outside laboratory may be 
defined as a free-standing independent laboratory or a hospital-based laboratory 
which in either case has been appropriately certified or meets equivalent standards 
as a provider under the prevailing regulations of P.L. 89-97, Titles XVIII and XIX 
(Medicare/Medicaid). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.26.3 Agreements. Such contractual arrangements shall be deemed as meeting the 
requirements of this section so long as those arrangements contain written 
policies, procedures and individual chart documentation to disclose that the 
<<<PAGE 575>>>
 
575 
  
policies of the facility are met and the needs of the patients are being provided. 
Written original reports shall be a part of the patient's chart.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.26.4 In-House Laboratories. 
1. In-house laboratories shall be well-organized and properly supervised by qualified 
personnel. 
2. The laboratory will be of sufficient size and adequately equipped to perform the 
necessary services of the facility. 
3. Provisions shall be made for preventive maintenance and an acceptable quality 
control  program covering all types of analyses performed by the laboratory. 
Documentation will be maintained. 
4. Written policies and procedures shall be developed and approved for all services 
provided by the laboratory. 
5. When tissue removed in surgery is examined by a pathologist, either 
macroscopically or microscopically, as determined by the treating physician and 
the pathologist, the pathology report shall be made a part of the patient's record. 
6. Arrangements shall be made for immediate pathological examinations, when 
appropriate. 
7. The laboratory must provide pathologists' services, as necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 27 Environment:  Patient Areas 
Rule 42.27.1 Patient Rooms (if provided): 
1. Shall contain 100 square feet of floor space for one bedroom and 80 square feet per 
bed for each multi-bedroom. 
2. Ceiling height of patients' rooms shall be 8'0" minimum. 
3. Storage. Each patient shall be provided with secured hanging storage space for their 
personal belongings. 
4. Furnishing: 
a. Bed. Each patient room or area shall be equipped with a hospital type bed with 
an adjustable spring. 
<<<PAGE 576>>>
 
576 
  
b. Bedside cabinet. It shall contain water service, bedpan, urinal and emesis basin 
(these may be disposable). 
5. Cubicle for privacy in all multi-bedrooms shall be provided. They shall have a 
flame spread of 25 or less. 
6. All walls shall be suitable for washing. 
7. A lavatory, equipped with wrist-action handles, shall be located in the room or in  
an adjacent private toilet room. (A bedpan washer is recommended.) 
8. Patient bed light shall be provided. 
9. Electric nurse call for every bed and other access shall be provided with 
annunciator at nurses station and nurses work area. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.27.2 Service Areas. 
1. Nurses station for nurses charting, doctors charting, communication and storage for 
supplies  and nurses personal effects. The station should accommodate at least 
three (3) persons. 
2. Nurses toilet with lavatory, convenient to nurses station. 
3. Clean work room for storage and assembly of supplies for nursing procedures shall 
contain   storage cabinets or storage carts, work counter and sink. 
4. Soiled utility shall contain deep sink, work counter, waste receptacle, soiled linen 
receptacle, and provision for washing bedpans if not provided elsewhere. 
5. Medicine station, adjacent to nurses' station, with sink, small refrigerator, locked 
storage,  narcotic locker and work counter. 
6. Clean linen storage. A closet large enough to hold adequate supply of clean linen. 
7. Provision for preoperative or postoperative nourishments. 
8. Stretcher and wheelchair storage area. 
9. Janitor’s closet, only large enough to contain floor receptor with plumbing and 
space for some supplies and mop buckets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.27.3 Surgical Suite. 
<<<PAGE 577>>>
 
577 
  
1. This area shall be located so as to prevent through traffic and shall contain: At least 
one operating room with adequate sterile storage cabinets or number of operating 
rooms shall be based on the expected surgical workload. 
2. A service area shall include: 
a. Surgical supervisor's station. 
b. Provision will be made for high speed sterilization of dropped instruments or 
pre-package instruments readily available for the operating room, if more than 
50 feet from central supply. 
c. Scrub station for two persons to scrub simultaneously. 
d. Clean-up room with two-compartment sink and drain-board and space for a dirty 
linen hamper. 
e. Oxygen and nitrous oxide storage in compliance with National Fire Protection 
Association Bulletin 56-A. 
f. Janitor’s closet only large enough to contain floor receptor with plumbing and 
space for some supplies and mop buckets. 
g. Doctor’s locker room containing toilet and shower with entry from non-sterile 
area and exit into sub-sterile area. 
h. Nurses locker room containing toilet and shower with entry from non-sterile 
area and exit into sub-sterile area. 
i. Stretcher storage. 
3. All finishes shall be capable of repeated scrubbings. 
4. The use of flammable anesthetic gases is prohibited. 
5. The temperature shall be maintained a 70-76 degrees Fahrenheit with a humidity 
level 50% to 60% and a 90% filter. 
6. Special lighting shall be supplied that eliminates shadows in the operating field 
with enough background illumination to avoid excessive contrast. Isolated power 
system is required. Emergency lighting shall comply with Standards of 
Emergency Electrical Service. 
7. Appropriate fire extinguisher shall be provided in the surgical suite. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.27.4 Recovery Room Suite. 
<<<PAGE 578>>>
 
578 
  
1. Recovery room shall contain charting space, medication storage and preparation 
and sink required. 
2. Each patient shall have readily available oxygen, suction and properly grounded 
outlets. Each bed shall be readily adjustable to various therapeutic positions, 
easily moved for transport, shall have a locking mechanism for a secure stationary 
position and a removable headboard. 
3. Direct visual observation of all patients shall be possible from a central vantage 
point, yet from the activity and noise of the unit by partitions, drapes and acoustic 
ceilings. 
4. Eighty (80) square feet shall be provided each bed or stretcher to make easily 
accessible for routine and emergency care of the patients and also to 
accommodate bulky equipment that may be needed. 
5. There shall be an alarm system for unit personnel to summon additional personnel 
in an  emergency. The alarm shall be connected to any area where unit personnel 
might be, physician      lounges, nurses lounges or stations.  
6. The kind and quality of equipment shall depend upon the needs of the patients 
treated.  Diagnostic monitoring and resuscitative equipment, such as respiratory 
assist apparatus,  defibrillators, pacemakers, phlebotomy and tracheostomy sets, 
endotracheal tubes,  laryngoscopes and other such devices shall be easily 
available within the units, and in good working order. There shall be a written 
preventive maintenance program that includes techniques for cleaning and for 
contamination control, as well as for the periodic testing of all equipment. 
7. Expert advice concerning the safe use of, and preventive maintenance for all 
biomedical devices and electrical installations shall be readily available at all 
times. Documentation of safety testing shall be provided on a regular basis to unit 
supervisors. 
8. There shall be written policies and procedures for the recovery room suite, which 
supplements the basic ambulatory surgical facility policies and procedures shall 
be developed and approved by the medical staff, in cooperation with the nursing 
staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 28 GENERAL SERVICE FACILITIES 
Rule 42.28.1 Admission Office. There shall be a room designated as the admission office 
where patients may discuss personal matters in private. The admission office may 
be combined with the business office and medical record room if privacy can be 
maintained when confidential matters are being discussed. This space shall be 
separated from the treatment area by walls and partitions. 
<<<PAGE 579>>>
 
579 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.28.2 Waiting Room. A waiting room in the administrative section shall be provided 
with sufficient seating for the maximum number of persons that may be waiting at 
any time. Public toilets/public telephones and drinking fountains, accessible to 
individuals with disabilities shall be available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.28.3 Administrative Area Nursing. 
1. Space for conference and in-service training. 
2. Director of Nurses office. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 29 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS 
Rule 42.29.1 New Construction, Additions, and Major Alterations. When construction is 
contemplated, either for new buildings, conversions, additions, or major 
alterations to existing buildings, or portions of buildings coming within the scope 
of these rules, plans and specifications shall be submitted for review and approval 
to the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.2 Minor Alterations and Remodeling. Minor alterations and remodeling which do 
not affect the structural integrity of the building, which do not change functional 
operation, which do not affect fire safety, and which do not add beds or facilities 
over those for which the surgical facility is licensed need not be submitted for 
approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.3 Water Supply, Plumbing and Drainage. No system of water supply, plumbing, 
sewerage, garbage or refuse disposal shall be installed, nor any such existing 
system materially altered or extended until complete plans and specifications for 
the installation, alteration or extension have been submitted to the Mississippi 
State Department of Health for review and approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.4 First Stage Submission - Preliminary Plans. 
1. First stage or preliminary plans shall include the following: 
a. Plot plans showing size and shape of entire site, location of proposed building 
and any existing structures, adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroad, etc., 
<<<PAGE 580>>>
 
580 
  
all properly designated; size, characteristics, and location of all existing public 
utilities. 
b. Floor plans showing overall dimensions of buildings; location, size and purpose 
of all  rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other openings with 
swing of doors  properly indicated; and location of stairs, elevators, 
dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
c. Outline specifications listing the kind and type of materials. 
2. Approval of preliminary plans and specifications shall be obtained from the 
Mississippi State Department of Health prior to starting final working drawings 
and specifications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.5 Final Stage Submission - Working Drawings and Specifications. 
1. Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include the following: 
a. Architectural drawings. 
b. Structural drawings. 
c. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heating and air conditioning. 
d. Electrical drawings. 
e. Detailed specifications. 
2. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
Mississippi State Department of Health prior to beginning actual construction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.6 Preparation of Plans and Specifications. The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or be under the immediate supervision of an 
architect registered in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.29.7 Contract Modifications. Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health prior to beginning work set forth in any 
contract modification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 581>>>
 
581 
  
Rule 42.29.8 Inspections. The Mississippi State Department of Health and its authorized 
representative shall have access to the work for inspection whenever it is in 
preparation or progress. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 30 GENERAL 
Rule 42.30.1 Location. The ambulatory surgical facility shall be located in an attractive setting 
with sufficient parking space provided, with provisions for meeting the needs of 
the individuals with disabilities. Also, the facility shall be located within 15 
minutes travel time from a hospital which has an emergency room staffed by an 
in-house physician during the hours the ambulatory surgical facility is open.  Site 
approval by the licensing agency must be secured before construction begins. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.2 Local Restriction. The ambulatory surgical facility shall comply with local 
zoning, building, and fire ordinances. In additional, ambulatory surgical facilities 
shall comply with all applicable state and federal laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.3 Structural Soundness. The building shall be structurally sound, free from leaks 
and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at intervals to be reasonably 
attractive inside and out. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.4 Fire Extinguisher. An all purpose fire extinguisher shall be provided at each exit 
and special hazard areas, and located so a person would not have to travel more 
than 75 feet to reach an extinguisher. Fire extinguishers shall be of a type 
approved by the local fire department or State Fire Marshall and shall be 
inspected at least annually. An attached tag shall bear the initials or name of the 
inspector and the date inspected. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.5 Ventilation. The building shall be properly ventilated at all times with a 
comfortable temperature maintained and 30% filters in all areas except surgery. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.6 Garbage Disposal. Space and facilities shall be provided for the sanitary storage 
and disposal of waste by incineration, containerization, removal, or by a 
combination of these techniques.  Infectious waste materials shall be rendered 
noninfectious on the premises by appropriate measures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.7 Elevators. Multi-story facilities shall be equipped with at least one automatic 
elevator of a size sufficient to carry a patient on a stretcher. 
<<<PAGE 582>>>
 
582 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.8 Multi-Story Building. All multi-story facilities shall be of fire resistive 
construction in accordance with N.F.P.A. 220, Standards Types of Building 
Construction. If the facility is part of a series of buildings, it shall be separated by 
fire walls. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.9 Doors. Minimum width of doors to all rooms needing access for stretchers shall 
be 3 feet 8 inches wide and doors shall swing into rooms. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.10 Corridors. Corridors shall comply with the following: 
1. Corridors used by patients shall be as a minimum six feet wide. 
2. Service corridors may be as a minimum four feet wide. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.11 Occupancy. No part of an ambulatory surgical facility may be rented, leased or 
used for any commercial purpose, or for any purpose not necessary or in 
conjunction with the operation of the facility. Food and drink machines may be 
maintained or a diet kitchen provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.12 Lighting. All areas of the facility shall have sufficient artificial lighting to prevent 
accidents and provide proper illumination for all services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.13 Emergency Lighting. Emergency lighting systems shall be provided to 
adequately light corridors, operating rooms, exit signs, stairways, and lights on 
each exit sign at each exit in case of electrical power failure. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.14 Emergency Power. Emergency generator shall be provided to make life 
sustaining equipment operable in case of power failure. Emergency failure outlets 
shall be provided in all patient care areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.15 Exits. Each floor of a facility shall have two or more exit ways remote from each 
other, leading directly to the outside or to a two-hour fire resistive passage to the 
outside. Exits shall be so located that the maximum distance from any point in a 
floor area, room or space to an exit doorway shall not exceed 100 feet except that 
<<<PAGE 583>>>
 
583 
  
when a sprinkler system is installed the distance of travel shall not exceed 150 
feet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.16 Exit Doors. Exit doors shall meet the following criteria: 
1. Shall be no less than 44 inches wide. 
2. Shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct the travel along any 
required fire exit. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.17 Exit Signs. Exits shall be equipped with approved illuminated signs bearing the 
word "Exit" in letters at least 4 1/2 inches high. Exit signs shall be placed in 
corridors and passageways to indicate the direction of exit. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.18 Interior Finish and Decorative Materials. All combustible decorative and 
acoustical material to include wall paneling shall be as follows:  
1. Materials on wall and ceiling in corridors and rooms occupied by four or more 
persons shall carry a flame spread rating of 25 or less and a smoke density rating 
of 450 or less in accordance with ASTM E-84. 
2. Rooms occupied by less than four persons shall have a flame spread rating of 75 or 
less and a smoke density rating of 450 or less in accordance with ASTM E-84. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.19 Floors. All floors in operating and recovery areas shall be smooth resilient tile 
and be free from cracks and finished so that they can be easily cleaned. All other 
floors shall be covered with hard tile resilient tile or carpet or the equivalent. 
Carpeting is prohibited as floor covering in operating and recovery areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.20 Carpet. Carpet assemblies (carpet and/or carpet and pad) shall carry a flame 
spread rating of 75 or less and smoke density rating of 450 or less in accordance 
with ASTM E-84, or shall conform with paragraph 6-5, N.F.P.A. 101, Life Safety 
Code, 1981. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.30.21 Curtains. All draperies and cubicle curtains shall be rendered and maintained 
flame retardant. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 584>>>
 
584 
  
Rule 42.30.22 Facilities for Individuals with Disabilities. The facility shall be accessible to  
individuals with disabilities and shall comply with A.N.S.I. 117.1, "Making 
Buildings and Facilities Accessible and Usable by Individuals with Disabilities". 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 31 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS PLAN 
Rule 42.31.1 The facility shall maintain a written disaster preparedness plan that includes 
procedures to be followed in the event of fire, train derailment, explosions, severe 
weather, and other possible disasters as appropriate for the specific geographic 
location.  The plan shall include: 
1. Written evidence that the plan has been reviewed and coordinated with the 
licensing agency’s local emergency response coordinator and the local emergency 
manager;  
2. Description of the facility’s chain of command during emergency management, 
including 24-hour contact information and the facility’s primary mode of 
emergency communication system; 
3. Written and signed agreements that describe how essential goods and services, such 
as water, electricity, fuel for generators, laundry, medications, medical equipment, 
and supplies, will be provided; 
4. Shelter or relocation arrangements, including transportation arrangements, in the 
event of evacuation; and 
5. Description of recovery, i.e., return of operations following an emergency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.31.2 The disaster preparedness plan shall be reviewed with new employees during 
orientation and at least annually. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 42.31.3 Fire drills shall be conducted quarterly.  Disaster drills shall be conducted at least 
annually. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 32 Conclusion 
Rule 42.32.1 Conditions which have not been covered in the standards shall be enforced in 
accordance with the best practices as interpreted by the licensing agency. The 
licensing agency reserves the right to: 
1. Review the payroll records of each ambulatory surgical facility for the purpose of 
verifying staffing patterns. 
<<<PAGE 585>>>
 
585 
  
2. Grant variances as it deems necessary for facilities existing prior to July 1, 1983. 
3. Information obtained by the licensing agency through filed reports, inspection, or 
as otherwise authorized, shall not be disclosed publicly in such manner as to 
identify individuals or institutions, except in proceedings involving the questions 
of licensure. 
4. The licensing agency shall reserve the right to review any and all records and 
reports of any ambulatory surgical facility, as deemed necessary to determine 
compliance with these minimum standards of operation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
CHAPTER 43:   MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR BIRTHING 
CENTERS 
Subchapter 1  INTRODUCTION 
Rule 43.1.1 On April 12, 1985, the Mississippi Legislature passed an Act to provide for the 
licensing of birthing centers by the department or its successor; to provide for 
license fees; to provide for hearings prior to the denial, suspension or 
revocation of a license; to provide for appeals from the decision at any such 
hearing; to provide penalties for violations of this act, and for related purposes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.1.2 The purpose of this act is to protect and promote the public welfare by 
providing for the development, establishment and enforcement of certain 
standards in the maintenance and operation of "birthing centers" which will 
ensure safe, sanitary and nationally recognized best practice standards 
adequate care of individuals in such institutions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-3 and §41-77-11  
 
Rule 43.1.3 A "birthing center" is a home-like facility where low risk births are planned to 
occur following a normal, uncomplicated pregnancy. A "birthing center" has 
sufficient space to accommodate participating family members and support 
people of the woman's choice. A "birthing center" provides midwifery practice 
to childbearing women during pregnancy, birth, and puerperium and to the 
infant during the immediate newborn period by certified nurse-midwives or by 
an obstetrician or family physician or osteopathic physician. A "birthing center" 
has specified access to acute care obstetric and newborn services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-1 and §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 2 GENERAL: LEGAL AUTHORITY 
 
<<<PAGE 586>>>
 
586 
  
Rule 43.2.1 Adoption of Regulations. Under and by virtue of the authority vested in it by 
Chapter 503 of the Laws of Mississippi, 1985, Regular Legislative Session, the 
department, as licensing agency, does hereby adopt and promulgate the following 
rules, regulations, and standards governing birthing centers licensed to operate in 
the State of Mississippi. The American Association of Birth Centers (AABC) 
Standards for Birth Centers are hereby incorporated by reference.  In order to be 
licensed by the Mississippi State Department of Health, each birth center shall be 
in compliance with the AABC Standards for Birth Centers. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.2.2 Procedures Governing Amendments. The rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards for birthing center facilities may be amended by the licensing 
agency from time to time as necessary to promote the health, safety, and 
welfare of persons receiving services in such institutions.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.2.3 Inspections Required. The department shall inspect each birthing center for 
which a license has been issued or by persons, delegated authority by said 
Department on an annual basis at such intervals as the Department may direct. 
The department and/or its authorized representatives shall have the right to 
inspect construction work in progress. New birthing center facilities shall not 
be licensed without having first been inspected for compliance with these 
rules, regulations, and minimum standards.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 and §41-77-17 
 
Rule 43.2.4 Definitions: A list of selected terms often used in connection with 
these rules, regulations, and standards follows. 
 
1. Administrator. The term "administrator" shall mean a person who is 
delegated the responsibility for the implementation and proper 
application of policies and programs established by the governing 
authority of the facility and is delegated responsibility for the 
establishment of safe and effective administrative management, 
control, and operation of the services provided. 
 
2. Birthing Center. A "Birthing Center" shall mean a publicly or privately 
owned facility, place or institution constructed, renovated, leased, or 
otherwise established where non-emergency births are planned to occur 
away from the mother's usual residence following a documented period 
of prenatal care for a normal uncomplicated pregnancy which has been 
determined to be a low risk through a formal risk scoring examination. A 
licensed physician, or certified nurse midwife and a registered nurse 
<<<PAGE 587>>>
 
587 
  
shall provide care in a birthing center. Services provided in a birthing 
center shall be limited in the following manner: 
 
  SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-1 and §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.3.2 Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
Definitions: A list of selected terms often used in connection with these rules, 
regulations and standards follows. 
 
1. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, employee shall mean any individual 
employed by a covered entity. The term “employee" also includes any 
individual who by contract with the covered entity provides direct 
client care in a client's room or in treatment rooms. 
 
2. The term employee does not include healthcare professional/technical 
students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical 
training in a licensed entity under contracts between their schools 
and the licensed entity, and does not include students at high schools 
who observe the treatment and care of clients in a licensed entity as 
part of the requirements of an allied health course taught in the 
school if: 
 
A. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; 
and 
 
B. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student's 
school stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty 
or nolo contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses 
listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, 
burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse 
and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea 
was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea; and 
 
C. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are 
exempt from application of the term employee under Section 41-75- 
13. 
 
3. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
"covered entity" means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional 
staffing agency. 
<<<PAGE 588>>>
 
588 
  
 
4. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
the term "licensed entity" means a Birthing Center. 
 
5. Health Care Professional Vocational Technical Student. For purposes 
of criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a 
healthcare professional/vocational technical academic program. 
 
6. Direct Client Care or Services. For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term "direct client care" means 
direct hands-on medical client care and services provided by an 
individual to a client, in a client's room or treatment room. Individuals 
providing direct client care may be directly employed by the facility or 
provides client care on a contractual basis. 
 
7. Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of fingerprinting 
and criminal background history checks, the term "documented 
disciplinary action" means any action taken against an employee for 
abuse or neglect of a client. 
 
8. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered 
entity shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the 
professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine 
if any disciplinary action has been taken against the employee by the 
agency, and a criminal history record check on: 
 
A. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct client 
care or services; and 
 
B. Any individual seeking new employment with a covered entity 
whose initial criminal history record check is over two years. 
 
9. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee shall be 
permitted to provide direct client care until the results of the criminal 
history record check have revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver. Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background 
check, any person may be employed and provide direct client care on a 
temporary basis pending the results of the criminal history record check 
but any employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall 
be voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check and 
no waiver is granted.  
 
10. If such criminal history record check discloses a conviction; a guilty 
plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of 
the following crimes that is job-related which has not been reversed on 
<<<PAGE 589>>>
 
589 
  
appeal, or for which a pardon has not been granted, the 
applicant/employee may not be eligible to be employed at the licensed 
facility: 
 
A. Possession or sale of drugs; 
 
B. Murder; 
 
C. Manslaughter; 
 
D. Armed robbery; 
 
E. Rape; or 
 
F. Sexual battery. 
 
11. Sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23 (g), Mississippi Code of 1972: 
 
A. Child abuse; 
 
B. Arson; 
 
C. Grand larceny; 
 
D. Burglary; 
 
E. Gratification of lust; 
 
F. Aggravated assault;  
 
G. Felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult; 
 
H. Any felony; or 
 
I. Identity theft.  
12.  Documentation of verification of the employee's disciplinary status, if any, 
with the employee's professional licensing agency as applicable, and 
evidence of submission of the employee's fingerprints to the licensing 
agency must be on file and maintained by the facility prior to the new 
employees first date of employment. The covered entity shall maintain on 
file evidence of verification of the employee's disciplinary status from any 
applicable professional licensing agency and of submission and/or 
completion of the criminal record check, a copy of the referenced notarized 
letter addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment.  
 
<<<PAGE 590>>>
 
590 
  
13.  Pursuant to Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency shall require every employee of a covered entity employed prior to 
July 01, 2003, to sign an affidavit stating that he or she does not have a 
criminal history as outlined in paragraph (3) above. 
 
14.  From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered entity hired 
before July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care unless 
the employee has signed an affidavit as required by this section. The 
covered entity shall place the affidavit in the employee’s personnel file as 
proof of compliance with this section. 
 
15. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is later 
determined that the person actually had been convicted of or pleaded guilty 
or nolo contendere to any of the offenses listed herein, and the conviction 
or pleas has not been reversed on appeal or a pardon has not been granted 
for the conviction or plea, the person is guilty of perjury as set out in 
Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972. The covered entity shall 
immediately institute termination proceedings against the employee 
pursuant to the facility’s policies and procedures. 
 
16. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable to 
sign the affidavit required by paragraph (7) of this subsection or any 
employee applicant aggrieved by the employment decision under this 
subsection to appear before the covered entity’s hiring officer, or his or her 
designee, to show mitigating circumstances that may exist and allow the 
employee or employee applicant to be employed at the covered entity. The 
covered entity, upon report and recommendation of the hiring officer, may 
grant waivers for those mitigating circumstances, which shall include, but 
not be limited to: (1) age at which the crime was committed; (2) 
circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of time since the 
conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; (5) 
current employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to the 
health or safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
 
17. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the 
fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
 
18. Should results of an employee applicant's criminal history record check 
reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two 
(2) weeks of the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the 
employee applicant with a notarized letter signed by the chief 
executive officer of the covered, or his or her authorized designee, 
confirming the employee applicant's suitability for employment based 
on his or her criminal history record check. An employee applicant 
may use that letter for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
<<<PAGE 591>>>
 
591 
  
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health without the necessity of an 
additional criminal record check. Any covered entity presented with the 
letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee applicant's 
criminal background and is not required for a period of two (2) years 
from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal 
history record check as required in this subsection. 
 
19. For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct 
client care as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a 
criminal history record check. 
 
20. Pursuant to Section 41-75-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, 
attorneys, and representatives shall be presumed to be acting in good faith 
for any employment decision or action taken under this section. The 
presumption of good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the 
evidence in any civil action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor 
their agents, officers, employees, attorneys, or representatives shall be 
held liable in any employment discrimination suit in which an allegation 
of discrimination is made regarding an employment decision authorized 
under this section. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 3    STAFFING 
 
Rule 43.3.1  Employee Health Screening. Every employee of a birthing center who comes in 
contact with patients shall receive a health screening by a licensed physician, 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant or employee health nurse who conduct 
exams prior to employment. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from 
the Centers for Disease control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health 
regarding baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing 
and education. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.3.2  Criminal History Record Checks. 
Definitions: A list of selected terms often used in connection with these rules, 
regulations and standards follows. 
 
1. Affidavit. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history checks, 
the term "affidavit" means the use of Mississippi State Department of Health 
(MSDH) Form #210, or a copy thereof, which shall be placed in the individual’s 
personal file. 
 
<<<PAGE 592>>>
 
592 
  
2. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history checks, 
employee shall mean any individual employed by a covered entity. The term 
“employee" also includes any individual who by contract with the covered   entity 
provides direct client care in a client's room or in    treatment rooms. 
 
The term employee does not include healthcare professional/technical students, as 
defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a licensed entity  under 
contracts between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not include 
students at high schools who observe the treatment and care of clients in a licensed 
entity as part of the requirements of an allied health course taught in the school if: 
a. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare 
provider; and 
 
b. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the 
student's school stating  that he or she has not been convicted 
of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a felony of possession 
or sale of drugs, murder, manslaughter,  armed robbery, rape, 
sexual battery, any sex offenses listed in section 45-33-23 (g), 
child abuse, arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of 
lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse and/or battery of a 
vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea was 
reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction 
or plea. 
 
c. Further, applicants and employees of the University of 
Mississippi Medical Center for whom criminal history record 
checks and fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with 
Section 37-115-41 are exempt from application of the term 
employee under Section 41-75-13. 
 
3. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
"covered entity" means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional 
staffing agency.  
 
4. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the 
term "licensed entity" means a Birthing Center. 
 
 
5. Health Care Professional Vocational Technical Student.  For purposes 
of   criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a 
healthcare professional/vocational technical academic program. 
 
6. Direct Client Care or Services. For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term "direct client care" means 
direct hands-on medical client care and services provided by an individual to 
a client, in a client's room or treatment room.  Individuals providing direct 
client care may be directly employed by the facility or provides client care 
<<<PAGE 593>>>
 
593 
  
on a contractual basis. 
 
7. Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of fingerprinting 
and criminal background history checks, the term "documented 
disciplinary action" means any action taken against an employee for 
abuse or neglect of a client. 
 
Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity 
shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the professional 
licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any disciplinary 
action has been taken against the employee by the agency, and   a criminal 
history record check on: 
 
a. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct 
client care or services; and 
 
b. Every employee of a covered entity who has documented 
disciplinary action by his or her present employer. 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee shall be 
permitted to provide direct client care until the results of the criminal 
history record check have revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver. Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background 
check, any person may be employed and provide direct client care on a 
temporary basis pending the results of the criminal history record check 
but any employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall 
be voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check and 
no waiver is granted . 
 
a. If such criminal history record check discloses a conviction; a 
guilty plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a crime that is job-
related which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a 
pardon has not been granted, the applicant/employee may not be 
eligible to be employed at the licensed facility.  Documentation of 
verification of the employee's disciplinary status, if any, with the 
employee's professional licensing agency as applicable, and 
evidence of submission of the employee's fingerprints to the 
licensing agency must be on file and maintained by the facility prior 
to the new employees first date of employment.  
 
b. The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification  
of the employee's disciplinary status from any applicable 
professional licensing agency and of submission and/or completion 
of the criminal record check, a copy of the referenced notarized 
letter addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment . 
<<<PAGE 594>>>
 
594 
  
 
The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the 
fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00).  
 
Should results of an employee applicant's criminal history record check 
reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) 
weeks of the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee 
applicant with a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee 
applicant's suitability for employment based on his or her criminal history 
record check. An employee applicant may use that letter for a period of 
two (2) years from the date of the letter to seek employment at any covered 
entity licensed by the Mississippi State Department of Health without the 
necessity of an additional criminal record check. Any covered entity 
presented with the letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee 
applicant's criminal background and is not required for a period of two (2) 
years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal 
history record check as required in this subsection. 
 
For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct client 
care as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal 
history record check. 
 
Pursuant to Section 41-75-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, attorneys 
and representatives shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any 
employment decision or action taken under this section. The presumption of 
good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil 
action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys or representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 4 TYPE OF LICENSE 
 
Rule 43.4.1 License. No license shall be issued to any facility, which fails to limit the 
clinical practice in the following manner: 
1. Surgical services shall be limited to those normally performed during 
uncomplicated childbirth, such as episiotomy and repair, and shall not 
include operative obstetrics or Caesarean sections 
 
2. Labor shall not be inhibited, stimulated or augmented with chemical agents 
during the first or second stage of labor 
<<<PAGE 595>>>
 
595 
  
 
3. Systemic analgesia may be administered and local anesthesia for pudendal 
block and episiotomy repair may be performed. General and conductive 
anesthesia shall not be administered at birthing centers 
 
4. Patients shall not remain in the facility in excess of twenty-four (24) hours. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.4.2 Regular License. A license shall be issued to each birthing center that meets the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. In addition, no birthing center 
facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the regulations establishing 
minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire, as well as for protection 
of life and property against fire. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
Subchapter 5 LICENSING 
Rule 43.5.1 Application and Annual Report & Fees- Application for a license or renewal of 
a license shall be made in writing to the department on forms provided by the 
department, which shall contain such information as the department may 
require. The application shall require reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability 
to comply with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. Each initial 
and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, shall be 
accompanied by a fee as set by the legislation according to sections MS Code § 
41-77-9 & MS Code § 41-77- 25. 
 
 Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, shall 
be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
not refundable. 
 
  SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
 
Rule 43.5.2 To be eligible for licensure in MS under this section, a birth center must be 
accredited by the Commission for Accreditation for Birthing Centers (CABC) or 
must obtain accreditation within six months of the date of the application for 
licensure. If the birth center loses its accreditation, the center must immediately 
notify the department.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
<<<PAGE 596>>>
 
596 
  
Rule 43.5.3 Issuance of License. All licenses issued by the department shall set forth the 
name of the birthing center, the location, the name of the licensee, and the license 
number. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.5.4    Expiration of License. Each license shall expire on June 30 following the date 
of issuance.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.5.5 Denial or Revocation of License: Hearings and Review. The department of 
Health, after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is 
authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that 
there has been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements established 
under the law and these regulations. A facility that has had its license revoked 
may not apply for a license for five years after the revocation has occurred.  
 
Also, the following shall be grounds for denial or revocation of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license or renewal of 
license. 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of 
Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-1 et seq. and/or of the rules, regulations, and 
minimum standards established by the licensing agency. 
3. Use of a controlled substance not prescribed by a licensed healthcare 
professional. 
4. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the licensed 
facility to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the residents. 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a job-related felony and misdemeanor. 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the licensed facility and/or its services. 
7. Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of patients and 
employees of said licensed facility.  Detrimental practices include but are not 
limited to: 
a. Cruelty to a patient or indifference to the needs which are essential to their 
general well-being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a patient. 
<<<PAGE 597>>>
 
597 
  
c. Inadequate staff to provide safe care of a patient. 
 Failure to transfer a patient whose condition demands care beyond the level of 
care provided by the licensed facility as determined by its classification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11and §41-77-19 
 
Rule 43.5.6  Mississippi State Department of Health shall be notified, in writing, of any of the 
following within 30 days prior the occurrence.  
1. Address/location, 
2. Facility name, 
3. Phone number; 
4. Hours of operation/24-hour contact procedure, 
5. Change in address or phone number, 
6. Administrator, 
7. Director of nursing, and 
8. Cessation of business. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11and §41-77-19 
 
Subchapter 6  RIGHT OF APPEAL 
 
Rule 43.6.1 Provision for hearing and appeal following denial or revocation of license is 
as follows: 
 
1.  Administrative Decision. The department will provide an opportunity for a 
fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with 
administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
 
2.  The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered 
mail or personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or 
revocation of license. Upon written request of applicant or licensee within 
ten (10) days of the date of notification the licensing agency shall fix a 
date not less than thirty (30) days from the date of such service at which 
time the applicant or licensee shall be given an opportunity for a prompt 
and fair hearing. 
 
3.  On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, 
the licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of 
<<<PAGE 598>>>
 
598 
  
fact and conclusions of law. A copy of such determination shall be sent by 
registered mail to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or 
served personally upon the applicant or licensee. 
 
4.  The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license 
shall become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the 
applicant or licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the 
decision to the Chancery Court in the county in which the facility is 
located, in the manner prescribed in Section 43-11-23, Mississippi Code of 
1972, as amended. An additional period may be granted at the discretion 
of the licensing agency.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11and §41-77-21 
 
Rule 43.6.2 Penalties for Violations. Any person or persons or other entity or entities 
establishing, managing or operating a birthing center or conducting the business 
of a birthing center without the required license, or which otherwise violate any 
of the provisions of the Minimum Standards promulgated by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health as amended, or the rules, regulations or standards 
promulgated in furtherance of any law in which the department has authority 
therefore shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions of Section 41-7-209. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11and §41-77-23 
 
Subchapter 7 PATIENT TRANSFER 
 
Rule 43.7.1 The patient shall be transferred when necessary to a hospital which shall have 
an organized obstetrical and newborn service which shall provide for an 
obstetrician and pediatrician on staff, 24-hour emergency care, and caesarean 
section capability within thirty (30) minutes of leaving the birthing center and 
shall provide skilled nursing care and facilities and equipment appropriate for 
the patient being transferred, having been notified on initiation of transfer.  
Facilities shall have a written policy that addresses the procedure for transfer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.7.2 Written Agreement. The written agreement shall state that no license shall be 
issued to a “birthing center” until such “birthing center” shall have obtained a 
written agreement with a hospital, which has organized obstetrical service and 
provides such service on a continuing basis. The written agreement shall state 
that the hospital agrees to accept from the birthing center such cases as need to 
be referred for whatever reason from the birthing center, and for phone 
consultation for problems that arise in the birthing center. [Appropriate 
transfer criteria for agreement with hospital.] The facility must follow all 
<<<PAGE 599>>>
 
599 
  
written policies developed by the licensed facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-7 and §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 8 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS 
Rule 43.8.1 The Licensed Entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan 
utilizing the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) Template developed by the 
MSDH Office of Emergency Planning and Response. “All Hazards” and 
“Whole Community” approach to emergency and disaster planning. The plan 
must include procedures to be followed in the event of any pandemic, act of 
terrorism, or man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific 
geographical location. The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), 
will be reviewed by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response, 
Mississippi State Department of Health, or their designates, for conformance 
with the “All Hazards Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan.” Particular 
attention shall be given to critical areas of concern which may arise during any 
“all hazards” emergency whether required to evacuate or to sustain in place. 
Additional plan criteria or a specified EOP format may be required as deemed 
necessary by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response. The nine (9) 
critical areas of consideration are: 
 
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and 
a frequency as required by the Office of EOP; 
 
2. Resources and Assets; 
 
3. Safety and Security; 
 
4. Staffing; 
 
5. Infrastructure (Water, sewer, electricity, data systems, etc.); 
 
6. Clinical Activities; 
 
7. Exercises - Exercises shall be conducted a minimum of (2) times per year; 
 
8. Smoke Detectors/Extinguishers (refer to NFPA 10 and NFPA 72); and 
 
9. Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP) to include surge and alternate 
care sites. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.8.2 Emergency Operations Plans. Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be 
exercised and reviewed annually or as directed by the Office of Emergency 
<<<PAGE 600>>>
 
600 
  
Planning and Response. Written evidence of current approval or review of 
provider EOPs, by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response, shall 
accompany all applications for facility license renewals. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.8.3 Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. Written records of all 
drills shall be maintained, indicating content of and attendance at each drill.  A fire 
evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a conspicuous place and kept 
current. The facility shall have a posted plan for evacuation of patients, staff and 
visitors in case of fire or another emergency. The birth center maintains functioning 
smoke alarms, appropriately placed fire extinguisher to control limited fires and 
emergency-powered lighting; identifies exits; protects stairwells with fire doors.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 9 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS 
 
Rule 43.9.1 Inspections. The department shall inspect each birthing center for which 
a  license  has been issued or by persons, delegated authority by said 
department on an annual basis at such intervals as the department may 
direct. The department and/or its authorized representatives shall have the 
right to inspect construction work in progress. New birthing center 
facilities shall not be licensed  without having first been inspected for 
compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
1. Construction shall not be started for any institution subject to these standards 
(whether new or remodeling or additions to an existing licensed birthing 
center) until the plans and specifications for such construction or remodeling 
have been submitted to the Licensing Agency in writing and its approval of the 
changes given in writing. 
 
A. Exception: Foundation changes made necessary by unanticipated 
conditions, or any conditions which present a hazard to life or 
property if not immediately corrected. 
 
B. New Construction, Additions, and Major Alterations. When 
construction is contemplated for new buildings, conversions, or 
additions to existing building coming within the scope of rules, 
plans, and specifications shall be submitted for review by the 
Department. 
 
C. Minor Alterations and Remodeling. Minor alterations and 
remodeling which do not affect the structural integrity of the 
building, change functional operation, affect fire safety, and add 
services to those for which the birthing center is licensed need not 
<<<PAGE 601>>>
 
601 
  
be submitted for review.  
 
D. Local Requirements. The birthing center shall comply with all local 
zoning, building, and fire ordinances. A birthing center may not be 
operated in a private residence. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Rule 43.9.2 Life Safety Codes. Physical Plant and Operational Standards. 
The following minimum physical plant and operational standards shall be met: 
 
1. Construction. For any existing construction, as of the date of this 
standard, shall meet, at a minimum, NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 
current edition and the FGI (Facility Guidelines Institute) 
Guidelines for Design and Construction of Health Care Facilities. 
In the event of the construction of a new birthing center or 
substantial modification of an existing facility, any subsequent 
edition of NFPA, Life Safety Code may be used, provided the 
licensing agency approve the use of such edition and that all 
construction and/or modifications meet the requirements of the 
approved edition. 
 
A. The construction of the building should be a free-standing 
building. 
 
B. Automatic Sprinklers Required. Facilities shall be protected 
throughout by a supervised automatic sprinkler system installed 
in accordance with the current edition of NFPA 13, Installation 
of Sprinkler Systems. 
 
C. Fire Code Items: 
 
i. Fire extinguishers in accordance with current edition NFPA 
10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.  
 
ii. Fire alarms and smoke detectors in accordance with current 
edition of NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code. 
 
2. The center shall provide sufficient space and equipment for patient 
and visitor waiting area, examination and treatment rooms, birth 
rooms, special care capability, and for staff and administrative 
areas. Birth rooms shall each have at least 200 square feet of area, 
must include bathroom, toilet, or entry way, and be designed and 
located to prevent traffic through them to any other part of the 
center (Facility Guidelines Institute). 
 
<<<PAGE 602>>>
 
602 
  
3. The licensing agency may deny the center a license if it does not 
comply with Federal, State, and local laws, codes, ordinances, and 
regulations which apply to its location, construction, maintenance, and 
operation. 
 
4. It shall be the responsibility of the governing body to assure that the 
center is in a safe condition at all times, and that a fire inspection 
record is maintained on equipment, systems, and areas that may 
present a hazard to occupants. 
 
5. In addition to requirements specified herein, and those required by local 
ordinances or regulations, the construction of a birth center shall meet the 
requirements of the current version National Fire Protection Association 
(NFPA) 101 shall be accompanied by written evidence that these 
requirements have been met. 
 
6. Entrances for patients shall be connected to the public right-of-way 
by a hard-surfaced, unobstructed walkway in good repair. Access 
for handicapped individuals shall be provided at a minimum of one 
entrance. A hard-surfaced, unobstructed road or driveway for use by 
ambulances or other emergency vehicles shall run from at least one 
entrance of the building to the public right-of-way. The doorway of 
such entrance shall be immediately adjacent to the road or driveway. 
If such doorway is not on the same level as the road, a ramp shall 
provide a continuous, unobstructed plane to the entrance. 
 
7. Services provided in multi-story buildings shall be accessible by an 
elevator of adequate size to accommodate a standard wheeled litter 
patient and two attendants. Multi-story buildings will be considered 
to have met this requirement when patients are located only on 
ground level floors with outside exits. A stairway or ramp of 
adequate dimensions shall be available for transfer of patients in 
case of power failure. 
 
8. The birth center shall be constructed, equipped, and maintained to 
assure the safety of patients and personnel. The following 
requirements shall apply within the center: 
 
A.       Birth rooms shall be designed and located to prevent traffic 
through them to any other part of the center. 
 
B.      The walls and floors of birth rooms, examination rooms 
and staff dressing, and scrub areas shall be of material 
that will permit frequent washing and cleaning. 
 
C.       Staff dressing rooms and scrub facilities shall be 
<<<PAGE 603>>>
 
603 
  
convenient to the birth rooms, and shall include a knee, 
elbow, wrist or foot operated sink soap dispenser and 
brushes. 
 
D.       Toilet and handwashing facilities shall be accessible to 
patients from the birth rooms. Bathrooms shall be equipped 
with handrails for toilets and showers. Convenient 
handwashing facilities shall be provided for both staff and 
patient and shall be provided with soap dispenser and 
individual or disposable towels. The use of common towels 
is prohibited. 
 
E.      The center shall be arranged and organized in such a manner 
as to ensure the comfort, safety, hygiene, privacy, and 
dignity of patients treated therein. 
 
F.       A clean up room for equipment shall be provided. 
 
G.       The center shall have an audible nurse call system with 
control switches in all birth rooms and bathrooms which can 
be activated during an emergency. 
 
H. The center shall have special care capability which includes but is 
not necessarily limited to the following, for both adults and infants: 
resuscitation equipment, intravenous solutions, drugs, oxygen, 
suction, infant stethoscope, and transfer isolette. Such emergency 
equipment shall be provided on each floor on which patients are 
served. 
 
I. Each birth room shall have an infant resuscitation tray with a 
laryngoscope, positive pressure bag and mask and endotracheal 
tubes. 
 
9. The center shall provide space and facilities for administrative 
activities, including offices, medical records and other files and 
storage of supplies. 
 
10. A waiting room and patient admissions area(s) shall be provided. 
There shall also be space for storage of personal belongings of 
staff, patients, and visitors. 
 
11. The center shall have adequate and conveniently located 
toilets and handwashing facilities for its staff, employees, 
patients, and visitors. 
 
<<<PAGE 604>>>
 
604 
  
Housekeeping, Laundry, Maintenance and Sterile Supplies: 
 
1. The center shall ensure that housekeeping and maintenance is 
adequate to maintain the center and equipment in a clean condition 
and state of good repair. An equipment clean-up area with adequate 
plumbing, including a sink with counter, shall be provided within 
the center. 
 
2. Laundry service shall be provided either in house or by contractual 
arrangement. Separate space and facilities shall be provided for 
receiving, sorting, and storing soiled laundry and for the sorting, 
storing, and issuing of clean laundry, if reusable items are utilized. 
Linens used for draping must be sterilized. All reusable linens, 
including those used as sterilizing wrappers, must be laundered before 
reuse. Linens shall be handled, stored, processed, and transported in 
such a manner as to prevent the spread of infection. Soiled and clean 
linen must be handled and stored separately.  
 
3. There shall be adequate space  and facilities for  receiving packaging 
and proper  sterilization end storage of supplies and equipment 
consistent with the services to be provided. 
 
4. Special precaution shall be taken to ensure that sterile instruments 
and supplies are kept separate from nonsterile instruments and 
supplies. Equipment for sterilization of instruments and supplies 
shall be conveniently located and of adequate capacity for the 
workload. Records shall be maintained to assure quality control, 
including, date, time, and temperature of each batch of sterilized 
supplies and equipment. Sterilization performance shall be checked, 
and records shall be kept. Sterile items shall be dated and utilized, 
based on established procedures. 
 
Electrical Power:  
 
1. All electrical work and equipment shall be designed and 
installed in accordance with State and local laws and 
ordinances. 
 
2. All areas of the center shall have sufficient artificial lighting for 
designated purposes. 
 
3. All centers shall have an alternative lighting source for emergency 
use in the event of a power failure. 
 
4. Centers shall equip the building with an emergency generating 
system; 
<<<PAGE 605>>>
 
605 
  
Level 1, Type 10 or equivalent in accordance with current NFPA 
110 
Standard for Emergency and Standby Power Systems; with 
adequate 
generating power to maintain full power to the building in the case 
of 
power failure. 
 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
 
Subchapter 10 WASTE MANAGEMENT 
 
Rule 43.10.1 All facilities must comply with the Adopted Standards for the 
Regulation of Medical Waste in Health Care Facilities licensed by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health.  These Standards are published on the MSDH 
website. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
Subchapter 11 INFECTION CONTROL 
 
Rule 43.11.1 The following infection control standards shall be met: 
 
1. The birthing center must maintain and document an effective infection 
control program that protects patients, families, visitors, and birthing 
center personnel by preventing and controlling infections and 
communicable diseases. 
 
2. The birthing center inpatient facility must have an active surveillance 
program that includes specific measures for prevention, early detection, 
control, education, and investigation of infections and communicable 
diseases in the birthing center. There must be a mechanism to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the program(s) and take corrective action when necessary. 
The program must include implementation of nationally recognized 
systems of infection control guidelines to avoid sources and transmission 
of infections and communicable diseases 
 
3. The birthing center must follow accepted standards of practice to prevent 
the transmission of infections and communicable diseases, including the 
use of standard precautions. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-77-11 
CHAPTER 44 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR ABORTION 
FACILITIES  
Subchapter 1 INTRODUCTION 
<<<PAGE 606>>>
 
606 
  
Rule 44.1.1 Adoption of Regulations.  Under and by virtue of authority vested in it by 
Mississippi Code Annotated ', the Mississippi  Department of Health, as licensing 
agency, does hereby adopt and promulgate the following rules, regulations and 
standards governing abortion facilities licensed to operate in the State of 
Mississippi. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.1.2 Procedures Governing Amendments.  The rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards for abortion facilities may be amended by the licensing agency from 
time to time as necessary to promote the health, safety, and welfare of persons 
receiving services in such institutions. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.1.3 Inspections Required.  Each abortion facility for which a license has been issued 
shall be inspected by the Mississippi Department of Health or by persons 
delegated with authority by said Mississippi Department of Health at such 
intervals as the Department may direct.  The Mississippi Department of Health 
and/or its authorized representatives shall have the right to inspect construction 
work in progress.  New abortion facilities shall not be licensed without having 
first been inspected for compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.1.4 Provisions.  The provisions of this act shall not be constructed to repeal or 
modify any provision of Mississippi law not expressly altered by this act, and 
furthermore does not establish a state policy that condones abortion. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.1.5 DEFINITIONS  A list of selected terms often used in connection with these 
rules, regulations, and standards follows: 
1. Abortion.  For the purpose of these regulations, "Abortion" means the use or 
prescription of any instrument, medicine, drug or any other substances or device to 
terminate the pregnancy of a woman known to be pregnant with any intention other 
than to increase the probability of a live birth to preserve the life or health of the child 
after live birth or to remove a dead fetus. 
2. Administrator.  The term "administrator" shall mean a person who is delegated the 
responsibility for the implementation and proper application of policies and programs 
established by the governing authority of the facility and is delegated responsibility 
for the establishment of safe and effective administrative management, control, and 
operation of the services provided.  This definition applies to a person designated as 
Chief Executive Officer or other similar title. 
<<<PAGE 607>>>
 
607 
  
3. Abortion Facility.  The term "abortion facility" means a facility operating 
substantially for the purpose of performing abortions for outpatients and is a separate 
identifiable legal entity from any other health care facility.  Abortions shall only be 
performed by physicians licensed to practice in the State of Mississippi. The term 
"abortion facility" term includes physicians' offices which are used substantially for 
the purpose of performing abortions.  An abortion facility operates substantially for 
the purpose of performing abortions if any of the following conditions are met: 
a. The abortion facility is a provider for performing ten (10) or more abortions 
 procedures per calendar month during any month of a calendar year, or one 
 hundred (100) or more in a calendar year. 
b. The abortion facility, if operating less than twenty (20) days per calendar month, 
 is a provider for performing ten (10) or more abortion procedures, or performing a 
 number of abortion procedures which would be equivalent to ten (10) procedures 
 per month, if the facility were operating twenty (20) or more days per calendar 
 month, in any month of a calendar year. 
c. The facility applies to the licensing agency for licensure as a Level I or Level II 
 abortion facility. 
4. Anesthetist.  A physician qualified and trained to administer anesthetic agents or a 
certified registered nurse qualified to administer anesthetic agents. 
5. Change of Ownership.  The term "change of ownership" includes, but is not limited 
to, intervivos gifts, purchases, transfers, leases, can an/or stock transactions or other 
comparable arrangements whenever the person or entity acquires an interest of fifty 
percent (50%) or more of the facility or services.  Changes of ownership from 
partnerships, single proprietorships, or corporations to another form of ownership are 
specifically included, provided, however, "change of ownership" shall not include 
any inherited interest acquired as a result of a testamentary instrument or under the 
laws of descent and distribution of the State of Mississippi. 
6. Abortion Facility Charge Nurse.  The "charge nurse" means a Registered Nurse, 
who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing, with supervisory and 
administrative ability who is responsible to the Governing Authority of the facility. 
7. Dismemberment Abortion. The term dismemberment abortion means, with the 
purpose of causing the death of an unborn child, purposely to dismember a living 
unborn child and extract him or her one piece at a time from the uterus through use of 
clamps, grasping forceps, tongs, scissors or similar instruments that, through the 
convergence of two rigid levers, slice, crush and/or grasp a portion of the unborn 
child’s body to cut or rip it off. The term dismemberment abortion does not include 
an abortion that uses suction to dismember the body of the unborn child by sucking 
fetal parts into a collection chamber, although it does include an abortion in which a 
dismembership abortion is used to cause the death of an unborn child but suction is 
subsequently used to extract fetal parts after the death of the unborn child. 
<<<PAGE 608>>>
 
608 
  
8. Governing Authority.  The term "governing authority" shall mean owner(s) 
associations, public bodies, board of trustees, or any other comparable designation of 
an individual or group of individuals who have the purpose of owning, acquiring, 
constructing, equipping, operating and/or maintaining abortion facilities and 
exercising control over the affairs, and in which the ultimate responsibility and 
authority of the facility is vested. 
9. Level I.  In accordance with Section 41-75-1, Mississippi Code of 1972, effective 
August 15, 2005, a Level I abortion facility shall be required to meet minimum 
standards for Level II abortion facilities and Minimum Standards of Operation For 
Ambulatory Surgical Facilities as established by the licensing agency. 
10. Level II.  In accordance with Section 41-75-1, Mississippi Code of 1972, effective 
August 15, 2005, a Level II abortion facility shall be required to meet the minimum 
standards for Level II abortion facilities as established by the licensing agency.  
11. Licensed Practical Nurse.  "Licensed practical nurse" (LPN) means any person 
licensed as such by the Mississippi State Board of Nursing. 
12. License.  The term "license" shall mean the document issued by the Mississippi 
Department of Health and signed by the Executive Director of the Mississippi 
Department of Health. 
13. Licensure shall constitute authority to receive patients and perform the services 
included within the scope of these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
14. Licensee.  The term "licensee" shall mean the individual to whom the license is 
issued and upon whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the abortion 
facility in compliance with these rules, regulations and minimum standards. 
15. Licensing Agency.  The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi 
Department of Health. 
16. Medical Treatment.  Means, but is not limited to, hospitalization, laboratory tests, 
surgery, or prescription of drugs.  
17. Nursing Personnel.  The term "nursing personnel" shall mean registered nurses, 
graduate nurses, licensed practical nurses, nurses' aides, orderlies, attendants and 
others rendering patient care. 
18. Operating.  "Operating" an abortion facility means that the facility is open for any 
period of time during a day and has on site at the facility or on call, a physician 
licensed to practice in the State of Mississippi available to provide abortions. 
19. Patient.  The term "patient" shall mean a person admitted to the abortion facility by 
and upon the recommendation of a physician and who is to receive medical care 
recommended by the physician. 
<<<PAGE 609>>>
 
609 
  
20. Performance By Physician Required.  No termination of pregnancy shall be 
performed at any time except by a physician. 
21. Person.  The term "person" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, 
company, association, or joint stock association, or any licensee herein or the legal 
successor thereof. 
22. Pharmacy.  The term "pharmacy" shall mean a place licensed by the Mississippi 
Board of Pharmacy where prescriptions, drugs, medicines and chemicals are offered 
for sale, compounded or dispensed, and shall include all places whose titles may 
imply the sale, offering for sale, compounding or dispensing of prescriptions, drugs, 
medicines or chemicals. 
23. Pharmacist.  The term "pharmacist" shall mean a person currently licensed by the 
Mississippi Board of Pharmacy to practice pharmacy in Mississippi under the 
provisions contained in current state statutes. 
24. Physician.  The term physician shall mean a person fully licensed by the Mississippi 
State Board of Medical Licensure to practice medicine and surgery in Mississippi 
under provisions contained in current state statutes, including but not limited to, Miss. 
Code Ann. §41-75-1: 
a.  He or she must have completed a residency in family medicine, with strong 
rotation through OB/GYN, in a residency program approved by the 
accreditation counsel for graduate medical education. 
b.  He or she must have completed a residency in obstetrics and gynecology in a 
residency program approved by the accreditation counsel for graduate medical 
education. 
c.  He or she must have an M.D. or O.D. degree and at least one year of 
postgraduate training in a training facility with an approved residency program 
and an additional year of obstetrics/gynecology residency. 
25. Purposely. The term “ purposely” means that a person acts purposely with respect to 
a material element of an offense when:  
a. If the element involves the nature of his conduct or a result there of, it is his 
conscious object to engage in conduct of that nature or to cause such a result; and 
b. If the element involves the attendant circumstances, he is aware of the existence 
of those circumstances or he believes or hopes that they exist. 
26. Registered Nurse.  The term "registered nurse" (R.N.) shall mean a professional 
registered nurse currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing in accordance 
with the provisions contained in current state statutes. 
27. May.  The term "may" indicates permission. 
<<<PAGE 610>>>
 
610 
  
28. Serious health risk to the unborn child’s mother. This term means that in 
reasonable medical judgment, she has a condition that so complicates her medical 
condition that it necessitates the abortion of her pregnancy to avert her death or to 
avert serious risk of substantial and irreversible physical impairment of a major 
bodily function, not including psychological or emotional conditions. No such 
condition may be determined to exist if it is based on a claim or diagnosis that the 
women will engage in conduct that she intends to result in her death or in substantial 
or irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function. 
29.  Shall.  The term "shall" indicates mandatory requirement(s). 
30.  Should.  The term "should" indicates recommendation(s). 
31. Termination of Pregnancy.  Abortion procedures after the first trimester shall only 
be performed at a Level I abortion facility or an ambulatory surgical facility or 
hospital licensed to perform that service. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-138 
Subchapter 2   TYPE OF LICENSE 
Rule 44.2.1 Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each abortion facility that meets 
the requirements as set forth in these regulations.  In addition, no abortion facility 
may be licensed until it shows conformance to the regulations establishing 
minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire, as well as, for protection 
of life and property against fire.  Compliance with the N.F.P.A. Life Safety Code 
101 for doctors' office and clinics shall be required. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.2.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the Mississippi Department of Health 
may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of noncompliance 
with these regulations exists in one or more particulars.  A provisional license 
shall be issued only if the Mississippi Department of Health is satisfied that 
preparations are being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and 
safety of patients will not be endangered meanwhile.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.2.3 Level I Abortion Facility.  Level I abortion facilities shall be required to meet 
minimum standards for abortion facilities and The Minimum Standards of 
Operation For Ambulatory Surgical Facilities as established by this agency.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.2.4 Level II Abortion Facility.  Level II abortion facilities shall be required to meet 
minimum standards for abortion facilities as established by this agency.  
<<<PAGE 611>>>
 
611 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.2.5 The following shall be codified as Section 41-75-16, Mississippi Code of 1972: 
41-75-16.  Any abortion facility which is in operation at the time of promulgation 
of any applicable rules or regulations or minimum standards under this chapter 
shall be given a reasonable time, under the particular circumstances not to exceed 
six (6) months from the date such are duly adopted, within which to comply with 
such rules and regulations and minimal standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 3      LICENSING 
Rule 44.3.1  Application and Annual Report. Application for a license or renewal of a 
license shall be made in writing to the Mississippi Department of Health on 
forms provided by the Department which shall contain such information as the 
Mississippi Department of Health may require. The application shall require 
reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability to comply with these rules, regulations, 
and minimum standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
Rule 44.3.2  Fee. In accordance with Section 41-7-209 Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, 
each application for initial licensure shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the 
Mississippi State Board of Health, made payable to the Mississippi Department of 
Health, either by business check, money order, or electronic means. The fee shall 
not be refundable after a license has been issued. 
 SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. § 41-75-13 
Rule 44.3.3  Renewal. A license, unless suspended or revoked, shall be renewable annually 
upon payment of a renewal fee as set by the board which shall be paid to the 
Mississippi Department of Health, either by business check, money order, or 
electronic means, and upon filing by the licensee and approval by the Mississippi 
Department of Health of an annual report upon such uniform dates and containing 
such information in such form as the licensing agency requires. Each license shall 
be issued only for the premises and person or persons named in the application 
and shall not be transferable or assignable. Licenses shall be posted in a 
conspicuous place on the licensed premises. The fee shall not be refundable.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
Rule 44.3.4 Name. Every abortion facility designated by a permanent and distinctive name 
which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not be changes without 
first notifying the licensing agency in writing and receiving written approval of 
the change from the licensing agency. Such notice shall specify the name to be 
discontinued, as well as, the new name proposed. Only the official name by 
which the abortion facility is licensed shall be used in telephone listings, on 
<<<PAGE 612>>>
 
612 
  
stationery, in advertising, etc. Two or more abortion facilities shall not be 
licensed under similar names in the same vicinity. No freestanding abortion 
facility shall include the word "hospital" in its name.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
Rule 44.3.5  Issuance of License. All licenses issued by the Mississippi Department of Health 
shall set forth the name of the abortion facility, the location, the name of the 
licensee and the license number. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
Rule 44.3.6  Separate License. A separate license shall be required for abortion facilities 
maintained on separate premises even though under the same management. 
However, separate licenses are not required for buildings, on the same ground, 
which are under the same management. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
 
Rule 44.3.7 Expiration of License. Each license shall expire on June 30, following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. § 41-75-13 
Rule 44.3.8 Denial or Revocation of License: Hearings and Review. The Mississippi 
Department of Health after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or 
licensee is authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it 
finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements 
established under the law and these regulations. Section 6; 41-75-26. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41 -75-13 
Rule 44.3.9 The following shall be codified as Section 41 -75-26, Mississippi Code of 1972:  
1. Any person or persons or other entity or entities establishing, managing or 
operating an abortion facility or conducting the business of an abortion facility 
without the required license, or which otherwise violate any provision of this 
chapter regarding abortion facilities or the rules, regulations and standards 
promulgated in furtherance thereof shall be subject to revocation of the license of 
the abortion facility or non-licensure of the abortion facility. In addition, any 
violation of any provision of this chapter regarding abortion facilities or of the 
rules, regulations and standards promulgated in furtherance thereof by intent, 
fraud, deceit, unlawful design, willful and/or deliberate misrepresentation, or by 
careless, negligent or incautious disregar d for such statutes or rules, regulations 
and standards, either by persons acting individually or in concert with others, 
shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed 
One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) for each such offense. Ea ch day of continuing 
 
<<<PAGE 613>>>
 
613 
  
violation shall be considered a separate offense. The venue of persecution of any 
such violation shall be in any county of the state wherein any such violation, or 
portion thereof, occurred. 
2. The Attorney General, upon certification by the executive director of the licensing 
agency, shall seek injunctive relief in a court of proper jurisdiction to prevent 
violations of the provisions of this chapter regarding abortion facilities or the rules, 
regulations and standards promulgated in furtherance thereof in cases where other 
administrative penalties and legal sanctions imposed have failed to prevent or 
cause a discontinuance of any such violation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13  
 
Subchapter 4      RIGHT OF APPEAL 
Rule 44.4.1 Provision for hearing and appeal following denial or revocation of license is as 
follows.  
1. Administrative Decision.  The Mississippi Department of Health will provide an 
opportunity for a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied 
with administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
a. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) 
days from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
b. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of applicant or licensee or served personally upon the 
applicant or licensee. 
c. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision to the Chancery 
Court in the county in which the facility is located, in the manner prescribed in 
SB2884, as amended.  An additional period of time may be granted at the 
discretion of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.4.2 Penalties.  Any person or persons or other entity or entities establishing managing 
or operating an abortion facility or conducting the business of an abortion facility 
without the required license, or which otherwise violate any of the provisions of 
<<<PAGE 614>>>
 
614 
  
this act or the Mississippi Department of Health, as amended, or the rules, 
regulations or standards promulgated in furtherance of any law in which the 
Mississippi Department of Health has authority therefore shall be subject to the 
penalties and sanctions of Section 41-7-209, Mississippi Code of 1972.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 5 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 44.5.1 Reporting.  Each abortion facility shall report monthly to the Mississippi 
Department of Health such information as may be required by the department in 
its rules and regulations for each abortion performed by such facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.5.2 Abortion Complication Reporting  A physician shall file a written report with 
the State Department of Health regarding each patient who comes under the 
physician's professional care and requires medical treatment or suffers death that 
the attending physician has a reasonable basis to believe is a primary, secondary, 
or tertiary result of an induced abortion. These reports shall be submitted within 
thirty (30) days of the discharge or death of the patient treated for the 
complication.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 6 CONSENTS REQUIRED 
Rule 44.6.1 Consents Required.  No abortion shall be performed or induced except with the 
voluntary and informed consent of the woman upon whom the abortion is to be 
performed or induced.  Except in the case of a medical emergency, consent to an 
abortion is voluntary and informed if and only if: 
1. The woman is told the following by the physician who is to perform or induce the 
abortion or by the referring physician, orally and in person at least twenty-four 
(24) hours before the abortion: 
a. The name of the physician who will perform or induce the abortion; 
b. The particular medical risks associated with the particular abortion procedure to 
be employed including, when medically accurate the risks of infection, 
hemorrhage and breast cancer and the danger to subsequent pregnancies and 
infertility; 
c. The probable gestational age of the unborn fetus at the time the abortion is to be 
performed or induced; and 
d. The medical risks associated with carrying her fetus to term. 
<<<PAGE 615>>>
 
615 
  
2. The woman is informed, by the physician of his agent orally and in person, at 
least twenty-four (24) hours before the abortion: 
a. That medical assistance benefits may be available for prenatal care, childbirth 
and neonatal care; 
b. That the father is liable to assist in the support of her child, even in instances 
which the father has offered to pay for the abortion; 
c. That there are available services provided by public and private agencies which 
provide pregnancy prevention counseling and medical referrals for obtaining 
pregnancy prevention medications or devices; and 
d. That she has the right to review the Informed Consent Information & Resources 
booklet.  The physician or his agent shall orally inform the woman that these 
materials have been provided by the State of Mississippi and that they describe 
the unborn fetus and list agencies that offer alternatives to abortion.  If the 
woman chooses to view the booklet, copies of them shall be furnished to her.  
The physician or his agent may disassociate himself or themselves from those 
materials, and may comment or refrain from comment on them as he chooses.  
The physician or his agency shall provide the woman with the "Informed 
Consent Information & Resource Booklet.” 
3. The woman certifies in writing before the abortion that the information described 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) above has been furnished to her, and that she has been 
informed of her opportunity to review the Informed Consent Information and 
Resource booklet.  Before the abortion is performed or induced, the physician 
who is to perform or induce the abortion receives a copy of the written 
certification prescribed by this section.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 7   PROCEDURES REQUIRED 
Rule 44.7.1 Procedures Required. 
1. Before the performance of an abortion, as defined in Paragraph 105.01, the 
physician who is to perform the abortion, or a qualified person assisting the 
physician, shall: 
a. Perform fetal ultrasound imaging and auscultation of fetal heart tone services on 
the patient undergoing the abortion; 
b. Offer to provide the patient with an opportunity to view the active ultrasound 
image of the unborn child and hear the heartbeat of the unborn child if the 
heartbeat is audible; 
c. Offer to provide the patient with a physical picture of the ultrasound image of 
the unborn child; 
<<<PAGE 616>>>
 
616 
  
d. Obtain the patient's signature on a certification form stating that the patient has 
been given the opportunity to view the active ultrasound image and hear the 
heartbeat of the unborn child if the heartbeat is audible, and that she has been 
offered a physical picture of the ultrasound image; and 
 
2. Retain a copy of the signed certification form in the patient's medical record. 
 
3. An ultrasound image must be of a quality consistent with standard medical practice 
in the community, shall contain the dimensions of the unborn child and shall 
accurately portray the presence of external members and internal organs, if 
present or viewable, of the unborn child.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Rule 44.7.2 Rule 44.7.2 Procedures Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to 
purposely perform or attempt to perform a dismemberment abortion and thereby 
kill an unborn child unless necessary to prevent serious health risk to the unborn 
child’s mother.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
 
Subchapter 8   LEVEL II ABORTION FACILITY ADMINISTRATION:  GOVERNING 
AUTHORITY 
 
Rule 44.8.1 Each facility shall be under the ultimate responsibility and control of an 
identifiable governing body, person, or persons. 
1. The facility's governing authority shall adopt bylaws, rules and regulations which 
shall: 
a. Specify by name the person to whom responsibility for operation and 
maintenance of the facility is delegated and methods established by the 
governing authority for holding such individuals responsible. 
b. Provide for at least annual meetings of the governing authority if the governing 
authority consists of two or more individuals.  Minutes shall be maintained of 
such meetings. 
c. Require policies and procedures which includes provisions for administration 
and use of the facility, compliance, personnel, quality assurance, procurement of 
outside services and consultations, patient care policies and services offered. 
2. When services such as dietary, laundry or therapy services are purchased from 
other the governing authority shall be responsible to assure the supplier(s) meets 
the same local and state standards the facility would have to meet if it were 
providing those services itself using its own staff. 
<<<PAGE 617>>>
 
617 
  
3. The governing authority shall provide for the selection and appointment of the 
Medicaid and dental staff and the granting of clinical privileges and shall be 
responsible for the professional conduct of these persons.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 9   ORGANIZATION AND STAFF 
Rule 44.9.1 Officer or Administrator. 
1. The governing authority shall appoint a qualified person as chief executive officer 
or administrator of the facility to represent the governing authority and shall 
define his/her authority and duties in writing.  He/she shall be responsible for the 
management of the facility, implementation of the policies of the governing 
authority and authorized and empowered to carry out the provisions of these 
regulations. 
2. When there is a planned change in ownership or in the chief executive officer, the 
governing authority of the facility shall notify the Mississippi Department of 
Health.  The chief executive officer shall be responsible for the preparation of 
written facility policies and procedures. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 10 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 44.10.1 Personnel Records.  A record of each employee should be maintained which 
includes the following to help provide quality assurance in the facility: 
1. Application for employment. 
2. Written references and/or a record of verbal references. 
3. Verification of all training and experience, and licensure, certification, 
registration, and/or renewals. 
4. Initial and subsequent health clearances. 
5. Record of orientation to the facility, its policies and procedures and the 
employee's position. 
6. Personnel records shall be confidential.  Representatives of the licensing agency 
conducting an inspection of the facility shall have the right to inspect personnel 
records.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.10.2 Health Examination.  As a minimum, each employee shall have a pre-
employment health examination by a physician.  The examination is to be 
<<<PAGE 618>>>
 
618 
  
repeated annually and more frequently if indicated to ascertain freedom from 
communicable diseases.  The extent of the annual examinations shall be 
determined by a committee consisting of the medical director, administrator and 
director of nursing, and documentation of the health examination shall be 
included in the employee's personnel folder.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 11 MEDICAL STAFF ORGANIZATION 
Rule 44.11.1 Medical Staff.  There shall be a single organized medical staff that has the overall 
responsibility for the quality of all clinical care provided to patients, and for the 
ethical conduct and professional practices of its members, as well as for 
accounting therefore to the governing authority.  The manner in which the 
medical staff is organized shall be consistent with the facility's documented staff 
organization bylaws, rules and regulations, and pertain to the setting where the 
facility is located.
 The facility must comply with all state and federal laws and 
regulations, including, but not limited to, provisions of MS. Code Ann. §41-75-1.  
The medical staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and the rules and regulations of 
the governing authority shall require that patients are admitted to the facility only 
upon the recommendation of a licensed physician and that a licensed physician be 
responsible for diagnosis and all medical care and treatment.  Physicians 
performing procedures in the licensed abortion facility must meet the 
requirements set forth in Rule 44.1.5. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.11.2 Professional Staff.  Each facility shall have at all times a designated medical 
director who shall be a physician who shall be responsible for the direction and 
coordination of all medical aspects of facility programs. 
1. There shall be a minimum of one licensed registered nurse per six patients (at any 
one time) at the clinic when patients are present.  During times when procedures 
are actually being performed, there shall be a physician and a registered nurse 
present on the premises. 
2. All facility personnel, medical and others, shall be licensed to perform the services 
they render when such services require licensure under the laws of the State of 
Mississippi. 
3. Anesthetic agents shall be administered by an anesthesiologist, a physician, or a 
certified registered nurse anesthetist under the supervision of a board-qualified or 
certified anesthesiologist or operating physician, who is actually on the premises.  
After the administration of an anesthetic, patients shall be constantly attended by 
a M.D., D.O., R.N., or a L.P.N. supervised directly by a R.N., until reacted and 
able to summon aid. 
<<<PAGE 619>>>
 
619 
  
4. All employees of the facility providing direct patient care shall be trained in 
emergency resuscitation at least annually.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 12 PATIENT TRANSFER 
Rule 44.12.1 Transfer Agreement.  The abortion facility shall have a written agreement with 
one or more physicians for the express purpose of ensuring that patients who have 
complications will be immediately transferred to the physician’s care.  The 
physician who enters the written agreement with the abortion facility shall: 
1. Have full admitting privileges with one or more acute general hospitals that shall 
be located within 30 minutes travel time of the abortion facility. 
2. Maintain his or her primary office location within 30 minutes travel time of the 
abortion facility. 
3. Have full credentials to handle complications of abortions with the acute general 
hospital(s). 
4. This transfer agreement is to be kept on site at the abortion facility subject to 
verification on demand by the Mississippi State Board of Health.  The transfer 
agreement as well as the parties to the agreement or any information regarding the 
parties will be kept confidential by the Mississippi State Board of Health.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 13 SAFETY 
Rule 44.13.1 Written Policies and Procedures. 
1. The governing authority shall develop written policies and procedures designed to 
enhance safety within the facility and on its grounds and minimize hazards to 
patients, staff, and visitors. 
2. The policies and procedures shall include establishment of the following: 
a. Safety rules and practices pertaining to personnel, equipment, gases, liquids, 
drugs; 
b. Provisions for reporting and the investigation of accidental events regarding 
patients, visitors and personnel (incidents) and corrective action taken; 
c. Provision for dissemination of safety-related information to employees and 
users of the facility; and 
d. Provision for syringe and needle storage, handling and disposal.  
<<<PAGE 620>>>
 
620 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 14 HOUSEKEEPING 
Rule 44.14.1 Cleaning.  The abortion suite shall be appropriately cleaned in accordance with 
established written procedures after each operation.  Holding rooms shall be 
maintained in a clean condition. 
Adequate housekeeping staff shall be employed to fulfill the above requirement.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 15 LINEN AND LAUNDRY 
Rule 44.15.1 Linen and Laundry Supply. 
1. An adequate supply of clean linen or disposable materials shall be maintained. 
2. Provisions for proper laundering of linen and washable goods shall be made.  
Soiled and clean linen shall be handled and stored separately. 
3. Sufficient supply of cloth or disposable towels shall be available so that a fresh 
towel can be used after each hand washing.  Towels shall not be shared.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 16 SANITATION 
Rule 44.16.1 Facility Sanitation. 
1. All parts of the facility, the premises, and equipment shall be kept clean and free 
of insects, rodents, litter, and rubbish. 
2. All garbage and waste shall be collected, stored, and disposed of in a manner 
designed to prevent the transmission of disease.  Containers shall be washed and 
sanitized before being returned to work areas.  Disposable type containers shall 
not be reused. 
3. Disposal of medical waste.  “Infectious medical wastes” includes solid or liquid 
wastes which may contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity such 
that exposure to the waste by a susceptible host has been proven to result in an 
infectious disease.  For purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes shall be 
considered to be infectious medical wastes: 
a. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who have Class I and/or 
II diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules 
and regulations governing reportable diseases as defined in Rules 44.16.2 & 
44.16.3. 
<<<PAGE 621>>>
 
621 
  
b. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents: including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from biologicals, 
discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices used to 
transfer, inoculate and mix cultures; 
c. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma and other blood components; 
d. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts and body fluids that are 
removed during surgery and autopsy; 
e. Contaminated carcasses, body parts and bedding of animals that were exposed 
to pathogens in medical research; 
f. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, 
broken glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious 
agents; 
g. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the 
Department of Health. 
h. “Medical Waste” means all waste generated in direct patient care or in 
diagnostic or research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically repugnant if 
found in the environment.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.16.2 Class I Diseases - Immediate Report: 
1. Any suspected outbreak (including food borne outbreaks) 
2. Anthrax (in man) Plague Botulism Poliomyelitis Cholera Rabies (human or animal) 
Dengue Syphilis Diphtheria Trichinosis Encephalitis Tuberculosis (active) 
Hepatitis A  Typhoid HIV infection, including AIDS Yellow Fever Measles 
Meningitis or other Invasive Disease due to:   Any case of rare or exotic Neisseria 
meningitides communicable disease Hemophilus influenza  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.16.3 Class II Diseases - Report within one Week: 
1. Actinomycosis 
2. Acute Rheumatic Fever 
3. Amebiasis 
4. Ascariasis 
<<<PAGE 622>>>
 
622 
  
5. Blastomycosis 
6. Brucellosis 
7. Coccidioidomycosis 
8. Congenital Rubella Syndrome 
9. Cryptococcoses 
10. Gonorrhea 
11. Hansen's Disease (Leprosy) 
12. Helicobacter (Campylobacter) Infection 
13. Hepatitis B 
14. Hepatitis non-A, non-B 
15. Hepatitis, unspecified 
16. Histoplasmosis 
17. HookwormHydatidosis 
18. Legionellosis 
19. Leptospirosis 
20. Lyme Borreliosis 
21. Malaria 
22. Meningitis other than 
23. Meningococcal or 
24. Hemophilus influenza 
25. Mumps 
26. Pertussis 
27. Poisoning 
28. Psittacosis 
29. Q Fever 
<<<PAGE 623>>>
 
623 
  
30. Relapsing Fever 
31. Reye Syndrome 
32. Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever 
33. Salmonellosis 
34. Shigellosis 
35. Taeniasis 
36. Tetanus 
37. Toxoplasmosis 
38. Tularemia 
39. Typhus Fever 
40. Vibrio Infection other than 
41. Cholera 
42. Viral Encephalitis in Horses  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.16.4 Medical Waste Management Plan  All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan that shall include, 
but is not limited to the following: 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and Medical Waste 
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a 
manner and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, does 
not provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and 
minimizes exposure to the public. 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point of 
origin in the producing facility.  
c. Unless approved by the Mississippi Department of Health or treated and 
rendered non-infectious, infectious medical waste (except for sharps in 
approved containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing facility for more 
than seven (7) days above a temperature of 6º C (38º F).  Containment of 
infectious medical waste at the producing facility is permitted at or below a 
temperature of 0º C (32º F) for a period of not more than ninety (90) days 
without specific approval of the Department of Health.  
<<<PAGE 624>>>
 
624 
  
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separate from other wastes.  
Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious medical waste shall 
be so secured so as to discourage access by unauthorized persons and shall be 
marked with prominent warning signs on, or adjacent to, the exterior of entry 
doors, gates, or lids.  Each container shall be prominently labeled with a sign 
using language to be determined by the Department and legible during daylight 
hours.  
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have strength sufficient to preclude 
ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage.  The bags shall 
be securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or liquid wasted 
during storage, handling, or transport.  
f. All sharps shall be contained for disposal in leak proof, rigid, puncture-resistant 
containers which are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of the 
contents.  
g. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall be 
of a distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infectious waste.  
Rigid containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled.  
h. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical waste 
unless the waste has been rendered non-infectious.  Sharps containers shall not 
be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the institution 
itself and shall not be placed for storage or transport in a portable or mobile 
trash compactor.  
i. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable containers 
as prescribed above shall be placed for storage, handling, or transport in 
disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums, or portable bins.  The containment 
system shall be leak proof, have tight-fitting covers and be kept clean and in 
good repair.  
j. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be 
thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a method 
specified by the Mississippi Department of Health, unless the surfaces of the 
containers have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags, 
or other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in I.E.  
2. Approved methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation to 
remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures:  
a. Exposure to hot water at least 180º F for a minimum of 15 seconds.  
b. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with or immersion in one of the 
following for a minimum of 3 minutes:  
<<<PAGE 625>>>
 
625 
  
i. Hypochlorite solution (500-ppm available chlorine).  
ii. Phenolic solution (500-ppm active agent).  
iii. Iodoform solution (100-ppm available iodine).  
iv. Quaternary ammonium solution (400-ppm active agent).  
3. Reusable pails, drums, or bins used for containment of infectious waste shall not 
be used for containment of waste to be disposed of as non-infectious waste or for 
other purposes except after being decontaminated by procedures as described in 
part (j) of this section.  
a. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste.  
b. Once treated and rendered non-infectious, previously defined infectious medical 
waste shall be classified as medical waste and may be landfilled in an approved 
landfill.  
4. Treatment or disposal of infectious medical waste shall be by one of the following 
methods:  
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash.  
b. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render the waste 
noninfectious.  Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be 
disposable as medical waste.  Operating procedures for steam sterilizers shall 
include, but not be limited to the following:  
i. Adoption of standard written operating procedures for each steam sterilizer 
including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of container(s), 
closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, and maximum load 
quantity.  
ii. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each complete 
cycle to ensure the attainment of a temperature of 121º C (250º F) for one half 
hour or longer, depending on quantity and density of the load, in order to 
achieve sterilization of the entire load.  Thermometers shall be checked for 
calibration at least annually.  
iii. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each container that is processed 
to indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions.  
iv. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the 
center of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least 
monthly to confirm the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions.  
<<<PAGE 626>>>
 
626 
  
v. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in (1), (2), (3) and (4) above 
for period of not less than a year.  
c. By discharge to the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the Department of Health.  
d. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be deposed of by incineration or 
internment, unless burial at an approved landfilled is specifically authorized by 
the Mississippi Department of Health.  
e. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized by the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and Toxic 
Substances.  Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide are 
examples of sterilants that, used in accordance with manufacturer 
recommendation, will render infectious waste non-infectious.  Testing with 
Bacillus subtilis spores or other equivalent organisms shall be conducted 
quarterly to ensure the sterilization effectiveness of gas or steam treatment.  
5. Treatment and disposal of medical waste which is not infectious shall be by one 
of the following methods:  
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash.  
b. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal facility 
or part of a facility where medical waste is placed in or on land and which is not 
a treatment facility.  
c. All the requirements of these standards shall apply, without regard to the 
quantity of medical waste generated per month, to any generator of medical 
waste.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 17 PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE  
Rule 44.17.1 Preventive Maintenance.  A schedule of preventive maintenance shall be 
developed for all of the surgical equipment in the surgical suite to assure 
satisfactory operation when needed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 18 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS  
Rule 44.18.1 Evacuation.  
1. The facility shall have a posted plan for evacuation of patients, staff, and visitors 
in case of fire or other emergency.  
<<<PAGE 627>>>
 
627 
  
2. Fire drills:  
a. At least one drill shall be held every three months for every employee to 
familiarize employees with the drill procedure.  Reports of the drills shall be 
maintained with records of attendance.  
b. Upon identification of procedural problems with regard to the drills, records 
shall show that corrective action has been taken.  
c. There shall be an ongoing training program for all personnel concerning aspects 
of fire safety and the disaster plan.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 19 MEDICAL RECORD SERVICES  
Rule 44.19.1 Medical Record System.  A medical record is maintained in accordance with 
accepted professional principles for every patient admitted and treated in the 
facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.19.2 Facilities.  A room or area shall be designated within the facility for medical 
records.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.19.3 Ownership.  Medical records shall be the property of the facility and shall not be 
removed except by subpoena or court order.  These records shall be protected 
against loss, destruction and unauthorized use.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.19.4 Preservation of Records.  Each patient's medical record shall include at least the 
following information:  
1. Patient identification, including the patient's full name, sex, address, date of birth, 
next of kin, and patient number.  
2. Admitting diagnosis.  
3. Preoperative history and physical examination pertaining to the procedure to be 
performed.  
4. Anesthesia reports.  
5. Procedure report.  
<<<PAGE 628>>>
 
628 
  
6. Pertinent laboratory and pathology reports as indicated and tests for RH Negative 
factor.  A pregnancy test or pathological exam of tissue shall be recorded to verify 
pregnancy.  
7. Preoperative and postoperative orders.  
8. Discharge note and discharge diagnosis.  
9. Informed consent.  
10. Nurses' notes:  
a. Admission and preoperative.  
b. Recovery and discharge.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.19.5 Completion of Medical Records.  All medical records shall be completed 
promptly.   Indexes.  All medical records should be properly indexed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 20 LEVEL II ABORTION FACILITY PATIENT CARE :  NURSING 
SERVICE  
Rule 44.20.1 Nursing Staff.  The abortion facility shall maintain an organized nursing staff to 
provide high quality nursing care for the needs of the patients and be responsible 
to the ambulatory surgical facility for the professional performance of its 
members.  The abortion facility nursing service shall be under the direction of a 
legally and professionally qualified registered nurse. There shall be a sufficient 
number of duly licensed nurses on duty at all times to plan, and provide nursing 
care for the patient.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.20.2 The Nursing Supervisor.  The nursing supervisor shall be a currently licensed 
Registered Professional Nurse.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.20.3 Staffing Pattern.  The staffing pattern shall provide for sufficient nursing 
personnel and for adequate supervision and direction by a registered nurse(s) 
consistent with the size and complexity of the abortion facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.20.4 Nursing Care.  A registered nurse must plan, supervise, and evaluate the nursing 
care of each patient from admission to discharge.  
<<<PAGE 629>>>
 
629 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.20.5 Licensed Practical Nurse.  Licensed practical nurses, who are currently licensed 
to practice within the state, as well as other ancillary nursing personnel, may be 
used to give nursing care that does not require the skill and judgment of a 
registered nurse.  Their performance shall be supervised by one or more registered 
nurses.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.20.6 Policies and Procedures.  Written nursing care and administrative policies and 
procedures shall be developed to provide the nursing staff with acceptable 
methods of meeting its responsibilities and achieving projected goals through 
realistic, attainable goals.  
1. In planning, decision-making, and formulation of policies that affect the operation 
of nursing service, the nursing care of patients, or the patient's environment, the 
recommendations of representatives of nursing service shall be considered.  
2. Nursing care policies and procedures shall be consistent with professionally 
recognized standards of nursing practice and shall be in accordance with Nurse 
Practice Act of the State of Mississippi and the Association of PeriOperative 
Registered Nurses (AORN) Standards of Practice.  
3. Policies shall include statements relating to at least the following:  
a. Noting diagnostic and therapeutic orders.  
b. Assignment of preoperative and postoperative care of patients.  
c. Administration of medications.  
d. Charting of nursing personnel.  
e. Infection control.  
f. Patient and personnel safety.  
4. Written copies of the procedure manual shall be available to the nursing staff in 
every nursing care unit and service area and to other services and departments in 
the ambulatory surgical facility.  
5. The abortion facility nursing policies and procedures shall be developed, 
periodically reviewed, and revised as necessary.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 21 SURGERY  
<<<PAGE 630>>>
 
630 
  
Rule 44.21.1 Policies and Procedures.  The abortion facility shall have effective policies 
and procedures regarding surgical privileges, maintenance of the operating 
rooms and evaluation of the clinic patient.  
1. The abortion room register shall be complete and up-to-date.  
2. There shall be a minor history and physical work-up in the chart of every 
patient prior to surgery plus documentation of a properly executed 
informed patient consent (by law).  
3. There shall be adequate provision for immediate postoperative care.  
4. An operative report describing techniques and findings shall be written or 
dictated immediately following surgery and signed by the surgeon.  
5. A procedure shall exist in establishing a program for identifying and 
preventing infections, maintaining a sanitary environment, and reporting 
results to appropriate authorities.  The operating surgeon shall be required 
to report back to the facility an infection for infection control follow-up.  
6. The abortion rooms shall be supervised by an experienced registered 
professional nurse.  
7. The following equipment shall be available to the abortion suite: 
emergency call system, oxygen, assistance equipment, including airways 
and manual breathing bag, sonography, emergency drugs and supplies 
specified by the medical staff.  Personnel trained in the use of emergency 
equipment and in cardiopulmonary resuscitation must be available 
whenever there is a patient in the abortion facility.  
8. Appropriate surgical attire will be worn in the abortion room.  
9. Rules and regulations or policies related to the abortion room shall be 
available for abortion facility personnel and physicians.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 22 ANESTHESIA  
Rule 44.22.1 Policies and Procedures.  The clinic shall have effective policies and 
procedures regarding staff privileges, the administration of anesthetics, and 
the maintenance of strict safety control.  
1. A preoperative evaluation of the patient within 24 hours of surgery shall 
be done by a physician to determine the risk or anesthesia and of the 
procedure to be performed.  
<<<PAGE 631>>>
 
631 
  
2. Before discharge from the abortion facility, each patient shall be evaluated 
by the physician for proper anesthesia recovery and discharged in the 
company of a responsible adult unless otherwise specified by the 
physician.  
3. Anesthetic agents shall be administered by only a physician qualified to 
administer anesthetic agents or a Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist 
(CRNA).  
4. The operating physician shall be responsible for all anesthetic agents 
administered in the abortion facility.  
5. The professional staff shall assume the responsibility of establishing 
general policies and supervising the administration of anesthetic agents.  
6. Safety precautions shall be in accordance with N.F.P.A. Bulletin 56-A, 
1981.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 23 SANITARY ENVIRONMENT  
Rule 44.23.1 Environment.  The abortion facility shall provide a safe and sanitary 
environment, properly constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the 
health and safety of patients.  
1. An infection committee, or comparable arrangement, composed of physician, 
Registered Nurse and Administrator, shall be established and shall be responsible 
for investigating, controlling, and preventing infections in the abortion facility. 
2. There shall be written procedures to govern the use of aseptic techniques and 
procedures in all areas of the abortion facility.  
3. Continuing education shall be provided to all abortion facility personnel on causes, 
effects, transmission, prevention, and elimination of infection on an annual basis.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 24 CENTRAL STERILE SUPPLY  
Rule 44.24.1 Sterilization.  Policies and procedures shall be maintained for method of 
control used in relation to the sterilization of supplies and water and a written 
policy requiring sterile supplies to be reprocessed at specific time periods.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
 
Subchapter 25 PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES  
<<<PAGE 632>>>
 
632 
  
Rule 44.25.1 Administering Drugs and Medicines.  Drugs and medicines shall not be 
administered to patients unless ordered by a physician duly licensed to 
prescribe drugs.  Such orders shall be in writing and signed personally by the 
physician who prescribes the drug or medicine.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.25.2 Medicine Storage.  Medicines and drugs maintained on the nursing unit for 
daily administration shall be properly stored and safeguarded in enclosures of 
sufficient size, and which are not accessible to unauthorized persons.  Only 
authorized personnel shall have access to storage enclosures.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.25.3 Safety.  Pharmacies and drug rooms shall be provided with safeguards to 
prevent entrance of unauthorized persons, including bars on accessible 
windows and locks on doors.  Controlled drugs shall be stored in a securely 
constructed room or cabinet, in accordance with applicable federal and state 
laws.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.25.4 Narcotic Permit.  An in-house pharmacy shall procure a state controlled drug 
permit if a stock of controlled drugs is to be maintained.  The permit shall be 
displayed in a prominent location.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.25.5 Records.  Records shall be kept of all stock supplies of controlled substances 
giving an accounting of all items received and/or administered.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.25.6 Medication Orders.  All oral or telephone orders for medications shall be 
received by a registered nurse, a physician or registered pharmacist and shall 
be reduced to writing on the physician's order record reflecting the prescribing 
physician and the name and title of the person who wrote the order.  
Telephone or oral orders shall be signed by the prescribing physician within 
48 hours.  The use of standing orders will be according to written policy.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 26 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: ANESTHETIZING AREAS:  
Rule 44.26.1 Dispensing Controlled Substances.  All controlled substances shall be dispensed 
to the responsible person (nursing supervisor), designated to handle controlled 
substances in the abortion room by a registered pharmacist in the abortion facility.  
<<<PAGE 633>>>
 
633 
  
When the controlled substance is dispensed, the following information shall be 
recorded into the Controlled Substance (proof-of-use) Record.  
1. Signature of pharmacist dispensing the controlled substance.  
2. Signature of designated licensed person receiving the controlled substance.  
3. The date and time controlled substance is dispensed.  
4. The name, the strength, and quantity of controlled substance dispensed.  
5. The serial number assigned to that particular record, which corresponds to same 
number recorded in the pharmacy's dispensing record.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.26.2 Security/Storage of Controlled Substances.  When not in use, all controlled 
substances shall be maintained in a securely locked, substantially constructed 
cabinet or area.  All controlled substance storage cabinets shall be permanently 
affixed.  Controlled substances removed from the controlled substance cabinet 
shall not be left unattended.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.26.3 Controlled Substance Administration Accountability.  The administration of 
all controlled substances to patients shall be carefully recorded into the anesthesia 
record.  The following information shall be transferred from the anesthesia record 
to the controlled substance record by the administering practitioner during the 
shift in which the controlled substance was administered.  
1. The patient's name.  
2. The name of the controlled substance and the dosage administered.  
3. The date and time the controlled substance is administered.  
4. The signature of the practitioner administering the controlled substance.  
5. The wastage of any controlled substance.  
6. The balance of controlled substances remaining after the administration of any 
quantity of the controlled substance.  
7. Day-ending or shift-ending verification of count of balances of controlled 
substances remaining, and controlled substances administered shall be 
accomplished by two (2) designated licensed persons whose signatures shall be 
affixed to a permanent record.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 634>>>
 
634 
  
Subchapter 27 LABORATORY SERVICES  
Rule 44.27.1 Laboratory Services.  The facility may either provide a clinical laboratory or 
make contractual arrangements with an approved outside laboratory to perform 
services commensurate with the needs of the facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.27.2 Qualifications of Outside Laboratory.  An approved outside laboratory may be 
defined as a freestanding independent laboratory or a hospital-based laboratory 
which in either case has been appropriately certified or meets equivalent standards 
as a provider under the prevailing regulations of 42 CFR Part 493, Clinical 
Laboratory Improvement Amendment, 1988.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.27.3 Agreements.  Such contractual arrangements shall be deemed as meeting the 
requirements of this section so long as those arrangements contain written 
policies, procedures and individual chart documentation to disclose that the 
policies of the facility are met and the needs of the patients are being provided.  
Written original reports shall be a part of the patient's chart.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.27.4 In-House Laboratories.  
1. In-house laboratories shall be well organized and properly supervised by qualified 
personnel.  
2. The laboratory will be of sufficient size and adequately equipped to perform the 
necessary services of the facility.  
3. Provisions shall be made for preventive maintenance and an acceptable quality 
control program covering all types of analyses performed by the laboratory.  
Documentation will be maintained.  
4. Written policies and procedures shall be developed and approved for all services 
provided by the laboratory.  
5. When tissue removed in surgery is examined by a pathologist, either 
macroscopically or microscopically, as determined by the treating physician and 
the pathologist, the pathology report shall be made a part of the patient's record.  
6. Arrangements shall be made for immediate pathological examinations, when 
appropriate.  
7. The laboratory must provide pathologists' services, as necessary.  
<<<PAGE 635>>>
 
635 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 28 LEVEL II ABORTION FACILITY ENVIRONMENT :  PATIENT 
AREAS  
Rule 44.28.1 Treatment Facilities.  
1. Examination Room(s).  Rooms for examination shall have a minimum floor area 
of 80 square feet, excluding vestibules, toilets, and closets.  Room arrangement 
should permit at least 2 feet 8 inches clearance at each side and at the foot of the 
examination table.  A hand-washing fixture shall be provided.  
2. Procedure Room.  Procedure rooms shall have a minimum floor area of 120 
square feet, excluding vestibule, toilet, and closets.  The minimum room 
dimension shall be 10 feet.  A scrub sink with knee, elbow, wrist, or foot control, 
soap dispenser, and single service towel dispenser will be available.  All finishes 
shall be capable of repeated cleaning.  
3. Recovery Room.  One or more recovery rooms containing sufficient beds for 
recovering patient shall be provided.  Reclining type vinyl upholstered chairs may 
be substituted in lieu of beds. Direct visual observation of the patients shall be 
possible from a central vantage point, yet patients shall have a reasonable amount 
of privacy.  
4. Clean Workroom.  A clean workroom shall be provided sufficient in size to 
process and store clean and sterile supply material and equipment, and must 
contain a work counter and sink. A system for sterilizing equipment shall be 
provided.  Sterilizing procedures may be done on or off site, or disposables may 
be used to satisfy functional needs.  
5. Soiled Workroom.  A separate soiled workroom is not required; however, 
facilities shall be provided for closed clean storage which prevents contamination 
by soiled materials and for storage and handling of soiled linens and other soiled 
materials.  
6. Toilets.  At least one toilet and lavatory with soap dispenser and towel dispenser 
shall be provided in the recovery room area.  Recovering patients shall have easy 
access to toilet facilities.  Toilet facilities shall be provided at no less than one 
water closet and lavatory per ten recovery beds.  
7. Housekeeping Room.  At least one housekeeping room or closet shall be 
provided.  It shall contain a service sink and storage for housekeeping supplies 
and equipment.  
8. The examination room, procedure room, and recovery room may be 
combined, provided that the combined room meets the requirements of 
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.  
<<<PAGE 636>>>
 
636 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 29 General Service Facilities  
Rule 44.29.1 Admission Office.  There shall be a room designated as the admission office 
where patients may discuss personal matters in private.   The admission office 
may be combined with the business office and medical record room if privacy can 
be maintained when confidential matters are being discussed.  This space shall be 
separated from the treatment area by walls and partitions.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.29.2 Waiting Room.  A waiting room in the administrative section shall be provided 
with sufficient seating for the maximum number of persons that may be waiting at 
any time.  Public toilets/public telephones and drinking fountains, accessible to 
individuals with disabilities shall be available.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 30 Plan And Specifications  
Rule 44.30.1 New Construction, Additions, and Major Alterations.  When construction is 
contemplated, either for new buildings, conversions, additions, or major 
alterations to existing buildings, or portions of buildings coming within the scope 
of these rules, plans and specifications shall be submitted for review and approval 
to the Mississippi Department of Health.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.2 Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which 
do not affect the structural integrity of the building, which do not change 
functional operation, which do not affect fire safety, and which do not add beds or 
facilities over those for which the surgical facility is licensed need not be 
submitted for approval.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.3 Water Supply, Plumbing, and Drainage.  No system of water supply, 
plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall be installed, nor any such 
existing system materially altered or extended until complete plans and 
specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have been submitted to 
the Mississippi Department of Health for review and approval.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.4 First Stage Submission - Preliminary Plans.  
1. First stage or preliminary plans shall include the following:  
<<<PAGE 637>>>
 
637 
  
a. Plot plans showing size and shape of entire site, location of proposed building 
and any existing structures, adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroad, etc., 
all properly designated; size, characteristics, and location of all existing public 
utilities.  
b. Floor plans showing overall dimensions of buildings; location, size and purpose 
of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other openings with 
swing of doors properly indicated; and location of stairs, elevators, 
dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys.  
c. Outline specifications listing the kind and type of materials. 
2. Approval of preliminary plans and specifications shall be obtained from the 
Mississippi Department of Health prior to starting final working drawings and 
specifications.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.5 Final Stage Submission - Working Drawings and Specifications.  
1. Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include the following:  
a. Architectural drawings.  
b. Structural drawings.  
c. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heating, and air conditioning.  
d. Electrical drawings.  
e. Detailed specifications.  
2. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
Mississippi Department of Health prior to beginning actual construction.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.6 Preparation of Plans and Specifications.  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or be under the immediate supervision of an 
architect registered in the State of Mississippi.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.30.7 Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
Mississippi Department of Health prior to beginning work set forth in any 
contract modification.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 638>>>
 
638 
  
Rule 44.30.8 Inspections.  The Mississippi Department of Health and its authorized 
representative shall have access to the work for inspection whenever it is in 
preparation or progress.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 31 GENERAL  
Rule 44.31.1 Location.  The abortion facility shall be located in an attractive setting with 
sufficient parking space provided, with provisions for meeting the needs of the 
individuals with disabilities.    The facility shall be located within 30 minutes 
travel time from a hospital which has an emergency room and shall not be located 
within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet from the property on which any 
church, school or kindergarten is located.  Site approval by the licensing agency 
must be secured before construction begins.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.2 Local Restriction.  The abortion facility shall comply with local zoning, building, 
 and fire ordinances.  In additional, ambulatory surgical facilities shall comply 
 with all applicable state and federal laws.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.3 Structural Soundness.  The building shall be structurally sound, free from leaks 
and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at intervals to be reasonably 
attractive inside and out.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.4 Fire Extinguisher.  An all purpose fire extinguisher shall be provided at each exit 
and special hazard areas, and located so a person would not have to travel more 
than 75 feet to reach an extinguisher.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.5 Fire extinguishers shall be of a type approved by the local fire department or 
State Fire Marshall and shall be inspected at least annually.  An attached tag shall 
bear the initials or name of the inspector and the date inspected.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.6 Ventilation.  The building shall be properly ventilated at all times with a 
comfortable temperature maintained.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 639>>>
 
639 
  
Rule 44.31.7 Garbage Disposal.  Space and facilities shall be provided for the sanitary storage 
and disposal of waste by incineration, containerization, removal, or by a 
combination of these techniques.  Infectious waste materials shall be rendered 
noninfectious on the premises by appropriate measures.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.8 Elevators.  Multi-story facilities shall be equipped with at least one automatic 
elevator of a size sufficient to carry a patient on a stretcher.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.9 Multi-Story Building.  All multi-story facilities shall be of fire resistive 
construction in accordance with N.F.P.A. 220, Standards Types of Building 
Construction.  If the facility is part of a series of buildings, it shall be separated by 
firewalls.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.10 Doors.  Minimum width of all doors shall be 3 feet.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.11 Corridors.  Minimum public corridor with shall be 5 feet.  Work corridors less 
than 6 feet in length may be 4 feet wide. Source:   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.12 Occupancy.  No part of an abortion facility may be rented, leased, or used for any 
commercial purpose, or for any purpose not necessary or in conjunction with the 
operation of the facility.  Food and drink machines may be maintained or a diet 
kitchen provided.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.13 Lighting.  All areas of the facility shall have sufficient artificial lighting to 
prevent accidents and provide proper illumination for all services.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.14 Emergency Lighting.  Emergency lighting systems shall be provided to 
adequately light corridors, operating rooms, exit signs, stairways, and lights on 
each exit sign at each exit in case of electrical power failure.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.15 Exits.  Each floor of a facility shall have two or more exit ways remote from each 
other, leading directly to the outside or to a two-hour fire resistive passage to the 
outside.  Exits shall be so located that the maximum distance from any point in a 
<<<PAGE 640>>>
 
640 
  
floor area, room, or space to an exit doorway shall not exceed 100 feet except that 
when a sprinkler system is installed the distance of travel shall not exceed 150 
feet.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.16 Exit Doors.  Exit doors shall be a minimum of 3 feet wide, shall swing in the 
direction of egress, and shall not obstruct the travel along any required fire exit.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.17 Exit Signs.  Exits shall be equipped with approved illuminated signs bearing the 
word "Exit" in letters at least 42 inches high.  Exit signs shall be placed in 
corridors and passageways to indicate the direction of exit.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.18 Interior Finish and Decorative Materials.  All combustible decorative and 
acoustical material to include wall paneling shall be as follows: 
1. Materials on wall and ceiling in corridors and rooms occupied by four or more 
persons shall carry a flame spread rating of 25 or less and a smoke density rating 
of 450 or less in accordance with ASTM E-84.  
2. Rooms occupied by less than four persons shall have a flame spread rating of 75 or 
less and a smoke density rating of 450 or less in accordance with ASTM E-84.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.19 Floors.  All floors in abortion suite and holding areas shall be smooth resilient tile 
and be free from cracks and finished so that they can be easily cleaned.  All other 
floors shall be covered with hard tile resilient tile or carpet or the equivalent.  
Carpeting is prohibited as floor covering in abortion and holding areas.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.20 Carpet.  Carpet assemblies (carpet and/or carpet and pad) shall carry a flame 
spread rating of 75 or less and smoke density rating of 450 or less in accordance 
with ASTM E-84, or shall conform with paragraph 6-5, N.F.P.A. 101, Life Safety 
Code, 1981.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.21 Curtains.  All draperies and cubicle curtains shall be rendered and maintained 
flame retardant.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
<<<PAGE 641>>>
 
641 
  
Rule 44.31.22 Facilities for Individuals with Disabilities.  The facility shall be accessible to 
individuals with disabilities and shall comply with A.N.S.I. 117.1, "Making 
Buildings and Facilities Accessible and Usable by Individuals with Disabilities.”  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.23 Smoke Free Environment.  NO SMOKING of tobacco products will be allowed 
within the abortion facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.24 Ceiling.  The minimum ceiling height shall be 7 feet 8 inches.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.25 Facilities for Individuals with Disabilities.  The facility shall comply with the 
Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.26 Wheelchair Storage.  The facility shall provide space for the storage of 
wheelchairs and such storage space shall be out of the direct line of traffic.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Rule 44.31.27 Disaster Preparedness Plan  
1. The facility shall maintain a written disaster preparedness plan that includes 
procedures to be followed in the event of fire, train derailment, explosions, severe 
weather, and other possible disasters as appropriate for the specific geographic 
location.  The plan shall include: 
a. Written evidence that the plan has been reviewed and coordinated with the 
licensing agency’s local emergency response coordinator and the local 
emergency manager; 
b. Description of the facility’s chain of command during emergency management, 
including 24-hour contact information and the facility’s primary mode of 
emergency communication system;  
c. Written and signed agreements that describe how essential goods and services, 
such as water, electricity, fuel for generators, laundry, medications, medical 
equipment, and supplies, will be provided;  
d. Shelter or relocation arrangements, including transportation arrangements, in the 
event of evacuation; and  
e. Description of recovery, i.e., return of operations following an emergency.  
<<<PAGE 642>>>
 
642 
  
2. The disaster preparedness plan shall be reviewed with new employees during 
orientation and at least annually.  
3. Fire drills shall be conducted quarterly.  Disaster drills shall be conducted at least 
annually.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
Subchapter 32 LEVEL II ABORTION FACILITY LICENSING AGENCY 
CONDITIONS  
Rule 44.32.2 Conditions which have not been covered in the standards shall be enforced in 
accordance with the best practices as interpreted by the licensing agency.  The 
licensing agency reserves the right to:  
1. Review the payroll records of each abortion facility for the purpose of verifying 
staffing patterns.  
2. Grant variances as it deems necessary for facilities existing prior to July 1, 1997.  
3. Information obtained by the licensing agency through filed reports, inspection or 
as otherwise authorized, shall not be disclosed publicly in such a manner as to 
identify individuals or institutions, except in proceedings involving the questions 
of licensure.  In proceedings involving questions of licensure, confidentiality of 
patient identifying information shall be maintained through redaction of any 
identifying information from records and the use of AJohn Doe@ or AJane Doe, 
@ etc., in the proceeding, the use of protective orders or placing appropriate parts 
of the file or any transcript of the proceeding under seal, or all of the above as 
may be appropriate, unless a written consent in waiver of confidentiality is 
executed.  
4. The licensing agency shall reserve the right to review any and all records and 
reports of any abortion facility, as deemed necessary to determine compliance 
with these minimum standards of operation.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-75-13 
CHAPTER 45   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR INSTITUTIONS FOR THE AGED OR 
INFIRM 
Subchapter 1 GENERAL NURSING HOMES:  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 45.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated §43-11-1 through §43-11-
17, or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi State Department of Health 
(otherwise known as the licensing agency), does hereby adopt and promulgate the 
following Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Institutions for the 
<<<PAGE 643>>>
 
643 
  
Aged or Infirm (hereinafter referred to as facility/ies).  Upon adoption of these 
Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Institutions for the Aged or 
Infirm, any former rules, regulations and minimum standards, in conflict 
therewith, previously adopted by the licensing agency are hereby repealed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.1.2 Codes and Ordinances.  Every facility located inside the boundaries of a 
municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and ordinances 
applicable thereto.  In addition, each facility shall comply with all applicable state 
and federal laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.1.3 Fire Safety.  No facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the safety 
regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire as 
well as for protection of life and property against fire. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.1.4 Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable 
deaths or avoidable, serious, or life-threatening injuries to residents resulting from 
fires, explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the Life 
Safety Code Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after the 
occurrence.  The licensing agency will provide the appropriate forms to the 
facility which shall be completed and returned within fifteen (15) calendar days of 
the occurrence.  All reports shall be complete and thorough and shall record, at a 
minimum the causal factors, date and time of occurrence, exact location of 
occurrence within or without the facility, and attached thereto shall be all police, 
fire, or other official reports. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2      Definitions 
Rule 45.2.1 Administrator.  The term "administrator" shall mean a person who is delegated 
the responsibility for the interpretation, implementation, and proper application of 
policies and programs established by the governing authority and are delegated 
responsibility for the establishment of safe and effective administrative 
management, control, and operation of the services provided.  The administrator 
may be titled manager, superintendent, director, or otherwise.  The administrator 
shall be duly licensed by the Mississippi State Board of Nursing Home 
Administrators.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.2 Bed Capacity. The term "bed capacity" shall mean the largest number which can 
be installed or set up in a facility at any given time for use of residents, as printed 
<<<PAGE 644>>>
 
644 
  
on the certificate of licensure.  The bed capacity shall be based upon space 
designed and/or specifically intended for such use whether or not the beds are 
actually installed or set up. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.3 Bed Count. The term "bed count" shall mean the number of beds that are actually 
installed or set up for residents in a facility at a given time. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-1 
Rule 45.2.4 Change of Ownership. The term "change of ownership" includes, but is not 
limited to, intervivos gifts, purchases, transfers, leases, cash and/or stock 
transactions or other comparable arrangements whenever the person or entity 
acquires a majority interest (Fifty percent [50%] or more) of the facility or 
services.  Changes of ownership from partnerships, single proprietorships or 
corporations to another form of ownership are specifically included.  Provided, 
however, "Change of Ownership" shall not include inherited interest acquired as a 
result of a testamentary instrument or under the laws of descent and distribution 
of the State of Mississippi 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.5 Criminal History Record Checks.  REPEALED. Effective 01.13.2023 
Rule 45.2.6 Day Shift.  The term “day shift” shall mean a minimum eight (8) hour period 
between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.7 Dentist.  The term "dentist" shall mean a person currently licensed to practice 
dentistry in Mississippi by the State Board of Dental Examiners. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.8 Dietitian.  The term “dietitian” shall mean a person who is licensed as a dietitian 
in the State of Mississippi, or a Registered Dietitian exempted from licensure by 
statute. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.9  Existing Facility.  The term "existing facility" shall mean a facility that has 
obtained licensure prior to the adoption of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.10  Governing Authority. The term "governing authority" shall mean owner(s), 
Board of Governors, Board of Trustees, or any other comparable body duly 
<<<PAGE 645>>>
 
645 
  
organized and constituted for the purpose of owning, acquiring, constructing, 
equipping, operating and/or maintaining a facility, and exercising control over the 
internal affairs of said facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.11  Infectious Medical Waste.  The term "infectious medical waste" includes solid 
or liquid wastes which may contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and 
quantity such that exposure to the waste by a susceptible host has been proven to 
result in an infectious disease.  For purposes of this regulation, the following 
wastes shall be considered to be infectious medical wastes: 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of residents and animals who have Class I and (or) 
II diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules and 
regulations governing reportable diseases as defined by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health; 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biological, discarded lie and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components. 
4. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken 
glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious agents; 
5. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.12 Institutions for the Aged or Infirm (Facility/ies).  The term "institution for the 
aged or infirm" (hereinafter referred to as facility or facilities) shall mean a place 
either governmental or private which provides group living arrangements for four 
(4) or more persons who are unrelated to the operator and who are being provided 
food, shelter, and personal care whether any such place be organized or operated 
for profit or not.  The term "institution for the aged or infirm" includes nursing 
homes, pediatric skilled nursing facilities, psychiatric residential treatment 
facilities, convalescent homes and homes for the aged, provided that these 
institutions fall within the scope of the definition set forth above.  The term 
“institutions for the aged or infirm" does not include hospitals, clinics, or mental 
institutions devoted primarily to providing medical service. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 646>>>
 
646 
  
Rule 45.2.13 License.  The term "license" shall mean the document issued by the licensing 
agency and signed by the State Health Officer of the Mississippi State Department 
of Health.  Licensure shall constitute authority to receive residents and perform 
the services included within the scope of these rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.14 Licensed Facility Representative:  For the purposes of regulations governing 
informal dispute resolutions, the term “licensed facility representative” shall mean 
an employee  of the licensed facility (i.e., including, but not limited to, 
administrator, assistant administrator, director of nursing, director of social 
services, and others), as designated by the administrator of the licensed facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.15 Licensed Practical Nurse.  The term "licensed practical nurse" shall mean a 
person who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing as a 
Licensed Practical Nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.16 Licensee.  The term "licensee" shall mean the person to which the license is 
issued and upon whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the institution 
in compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
Rule 45.2.17 IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s).  A whole blood test used in to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection.  The IGRA blood test 
used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.18 Licensing Agency.  The term “licensing agency” shall mean the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.19 Mantoux Test.  A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one-tenth 
(0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative-tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm with 
a needle and syringe.  The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and seventy-
two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to the size of 
the induration.  The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on 
the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition for 
“significant tuberculin skin test”).  This test is used to evaluate the likelihood that 
a person is infected with M. tuberculosis. The Mantoux (TST) test should be 
administered only by persons certified in the intradermal technique. 
<<<PAGE 647>>>
 
647 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.20 Medical Waste.  The term "medical waste" means all waste generated in direct 
resident care or in diagnostic or research areas that is non-infectious but 
aesthetically repugnant if found in the environment. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.21 New Facility.  The term "new facility" shall mean a facility that applies for 
licensure after the adoption of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.22 Nurse Practitioner/Physician Assistant.  The term “nurse practitioner” shall 
mean a person who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing as a 
nurse practitioner. The term “physician assistant” shall mean a physician assistant 
who is currently licensed as such by the Mississippi Board of Medical Licensure. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.23 Nursing Facility.  The term "nursing facility" shall mean a facility in which 
nursing care is under the supervision of a registered nurse.  Either a registered 
nurse or a licensed practical nurse shall be on active duty at all times. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.24 Nursing Unit.  The maximum nursing unit shall be sixty (60) beds. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.25 Patient.  The term "patient" shall mean any person admitted to a facility for care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.26 Person.  The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, 
corporation, company, association, or joint stock association, or any licensee 
herein or the legal successor thereof. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.27 Personal Care.  The term “personal care” shall mean assistance rendered by 
personnel of the facility for residents in performing one or more of the activities 
of daily living which includes, but is not limited to, the bathing, walking, 
excretory functions, feeding, personal grooming, and dressing of such residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.28 Pharmacist.  The term "pharmacist" shall mean a person currently licensed to 
practice pharmacy in Mississippi by the State Board of Pharmacy. 
<<<PAGE 648>>>
 
648 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.29  Physician.  The term "physician" shall mean any person currently licensed in 
Mississippi by the Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.30   Qualified Dietary Manager. 
1. A Dietetic Technician who has successfully graduated from a Dietetic Technician 
program accredited by the American Dietetic Association Commission on 
Accreditation and Approval of Dietetic Education and earns 15 hours of 
continuing education units every year approved by the Dietary Manager's 
Association or the American Dietetic Association. 
2. A person who has successfully graduated from a didactic program in Dietetics 
approved by the American Dietetic Association Commission on Accreditation and 
Approval of Dietetic Education and earns 15 hours of continuing education units 
every year approved by the Dietary Manager's Association or the American 
Dietetic Association. 
3. A person who has successfully completed a Dietary Manager's Course approved by 
the Dietary Manager's Association and who passes the credentialing examination 
and earns 15 hours of continuing education units every year approved by the 
Dietary Manager's Association or the American Dietetic Association. 
4. A person who has successfully completed a Dietary Manager's Course approved by 
the Dietary Manager's Association and earns 15 hours of continuing education 
units every year approved by the Dietary Manager's Association or the American 
Dietetic Association 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.31 Registered Nurse.  The term "registered nurse" shall mean a person who is 
currently licensed by the Nurses' Board of Examination and Registration of 
Mississippi Board of Nursing as a registered nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.32 Resident.  The term "resident" is synonymous with patient. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.33 Restraint.  The term "restraint" shall include any means, physical or chemical, 
which is intentionally used to restrict the freedom of movement of a person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 649>>>
 
649 
  
Rule 45.2.34 Surveyor.  The term "surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on a 
contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting surveys, 
inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the licensing 
agency’s responsibilities for licensure and regulation of institutions for the aged 
and infirm. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.35 Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters or 
greater is significant (or positive) in the following: 
1. Persons known to have or suspected of having human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). 
2. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
3. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous tuberculosis. 
4. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown). 
5. An induration of ten (10) millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all 
other persons tested in Mississippi.  A tuberculin skin test is recorded in 
millimeters of induration.  For accurate results, measure the widest diameter of 
the palpable induration transverse (across) the arm. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.36 Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who will 
periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to reduce the 
likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If the initial 
tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated one (1) to 
three (3) weeks later.  If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably 
represents a boosted reaction.  If the second test is also negative, the person is 
classified as not infected.  A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate 
new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.2.37 Ventilator Dependent Patient.  A patient who is dependent upon mechanical life 
support because of inability to breathe effectively. A ventilator is used when the 
patient cannot breathe well enough to maintain normal levels of oxygen and 
carbon dioxide in the blood.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13   
Subchapter 3      INSPECTION 
<<<PAGE 650>>>
 
650 
  
Rule 45.3.1 Inspections Required.  Each facility for which a license has been issued shall be 
inspected by the licensing agency by persons delegated with authority by the 
licensing agency at such intervals as the licensing agency may direct.  The 
licensing agency and/or its authorized representatives shall have the right to 
inspect construction work in progress.  New institutions shall not be licensed 
without having first been inspected for compliance with these rules, regulations, 
and minimum standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4 CLASSIFICATION OF INSTITUTIONS FOR THE AGED OR INFIRM 
AS NURSING FACILITY:  NURSING FACILITY 
Rule 45.4.1 Nursing Facility.  To be classified as a facility, the institution shall comply with 
the following staffing requirements: 
1. Minimum requirements for nursing staff shall be based on the ratio of two and 
eight-tenths (2.80) hours of direct nursing care per resident per twenty-four (24) 
hours.  Staffing requirements are based upon resident census.  Based upon the 
physical layout of the nursing facility, the licensing agency may increase the 
nursing care per resident ratio. 
2. Each facility shall have the following licensed personnel as a minimum: 
a. Seven (7) day coverage on the day shift by a registered nurse. 
b. A registered nurse designated as the Director of Nursing Services, who shall be 
employed on a full time (five [5] days per week) basis on the day shift and be 
responsible for all nursing services in the facility. 
c. Facilities of one-hundred eighty (180) beds or more shall have an assistant 
director of nursing services, who shall be a registered nurse. 
d. A registered nurse or licensed practical nurse shall serve as a charge nurse and 
be responsible for supervision of the total nursing activities in the facility during 
the 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. shift.  The nurse assigned 
to the unit for the 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shift may serve as both the charge 
nurse and medication/treatment nurse. A medication/treatment nurse for each 
nurses' station shall be required on all shifts.   This shall be a registered nurse or 
licensed practical nurse. 
e. In facilities with sixty (60) beds or less, the director of nursing services may 
serve as charge nurse. 
f. In facilities with more than sixty (60) beds, the charge nurse may not be the 
director of nursing services or the medication/treatment nurse. 
<<<PAGE 651>>>
 
651 
  
g. For facilities providing care to ventilator dependent patients/residents, the 
facility shall provide, on a twenty-four hour basis, an adequate number of 
registered nurses and respiratory therapist(s) who are trained and competent to 
take care of a ventilator dependent patient. Such training and the competency 
evaluation must be conducted by a respiratory therapist or a pulmonologist and 
records of said training maintained by the facility. 
3. Non-Licensed Staff.  The non-licensed staff shall be added to the total licensed 
staff, to complete the required staffing requirements.  
4. There shall be at least two (2) employees in the facility at all times in the event of 
an emergency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13   
Subchapter 5  THE LICENSE 
Rule 45.5.1 License.  A license shall be issued to each facility that meets the requirements as 
set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 
Rule 45.6.1  Application. Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency on forms provided by the licensing agency which 
shall contain such information as the licensing agency may require. The 
application shall require reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability to comply 
with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43 -11-13 
 
Rule 45.6.2  Fees. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless  suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, money order, or 
electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43 -11-13 
 
Rule 45.6.3  Name of Institution. Every facility or infirm shall be designated by a permanent 
and distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not be 
changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and receiving 
written approval of the change from the licensing agency. Such notice shall 
specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed. The words 
<<<PAGE 652>>>
 
652 
  
“hospital”, “sanitarium”, “sanatorium”, “clinic” or any other word which would 
reflect a different type of facility shall not appear in the title of a facility. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43 -11-13 
 
Rule 45.6.4 Number of Beds . Each application for license shall specify the maximum 
number of beds in the facility as determined by Rule 45.19.2 of these 
regulations. The maximum number of beds for which the facility is licensed 
shall not be exceeded.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
 
Subchapter 7   LICENSING 
Rule 45.7.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set forth 
the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the classification of 
the institution, the type of building, the bed capacity for which the institution is 
licensed, and the license number. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.7.2 Separate License.  Separate license shall be required for institutions maintained 
on separate premises even though under the same management.  However, 
separate license are not required for buildings on the same grounds which are 
under the same management. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.7.3 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
license premises and shall be available for review by an interested person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.7.4 License Not Transferable.  The license for a facility is not transferable or 
assignable to any other person except by written approval of the licensing agency 
and shall be issued only for the premises named in the application.  The license 
shall be surrendered to the licensing agency on change of ownership, licensee, 
name or location of the institution, or in the event that the institution ceases to be 
operated as a facility.  In event of change of ownership, licensee, name or location 
of the facility, a new application shall be filed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.7.5 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31 following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 653>>>
 
653 
  
Rule 45.7.6 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable by the licensee. 
1. Filing of an application for renewal of licensee. 
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee as mandated in Rule 45.6.2. 
3. Approval of an annual report by the licensing agency. 
4. Maintenance by the institution of minimum standards in its physical facility, staff, 
services and operation as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 8   DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 45.8.1 Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearing and Review.  The licensing agency 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee is authorized 
to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that there has 
been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements established under the 
law and these regulations.  Also, the following shall be grounds for denial or 
revocation of license. 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license. 
2. A willful or repeated violation by the licensee of any of the provisions of §43-11-1 
et seq., of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or of the rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards established by the licensing agency. 
3. Use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs by the licensee or other personnel of 
the home, to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the resident. 
4. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
5. Publicly misrepresenting the home and/or its services. 
6. Permitting, aiding, abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
7. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of residents and employees 
of said facilities provided that this provision shall not be construed to have any 
reference to healing practices authorized by law.  Detrimental practices include 
but are not necessarily limited to: 
a. Cruelty to residents or indifference of their needs which are essential to their 
general well being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a resident. 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of the resident. 
<<<PAGE 654>>>
 
654 
  
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a resident. 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant when 
required by the resident's condition. 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a resident's conditions become critical. 
g. Admission of a resident whose condition demands care beyond the level of care 
provided by the facility as determined by its classification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 9   PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING DENIAL 
OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
Rule 45.9.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency will provide an opportunity for a 
fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in the denial or revocation of a license, or who qualifies pursuant 
to Subchapter 8 to appeal from an adverse determination in an informal dispute 
resolution proceeding. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by certified mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license, or of the findings in the informal dispute resolution proceeding.  Upon 
written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the date of 
notification the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) days from 
the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be given an 
opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally upon 
the applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, denying the application or license, or upholding 
the findings of the informal dispute resolution proceeding shall become final 
thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served upon the applicant or licensee; 
however in matters involving the revocation, suspension, or denial of an 
application or license, or an enforcement action, the applicant or licensee may 
within such thirty (30) day period, appeal the decision to the Chancery Court 
pursuant to §43-11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended.  An 
additional period of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.9.2 Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating a facility 
without a license shall be declared in violations of these regulations and Chapter 
<<<PAGE 655>>>
 
655 
  
451 of the Laws of Mississippi of the Regular Legislative Session of 1979 and 
subject to the penalties specified in §18 thereof. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 10 ADMINISTRATION:  THE AUTHORITY FOR 
ADMINISTRATION FOR INSTITUTION FOR THE AGED OR 
INFIRM 
Rule 45.10.1 Responsibility.  The governing authority, the owner, or the person(s) designated 
by the governing authority or the owner shall be the supreme authority in a 
facility responsible for the management, control, and operation of the institution 
including the appointment of a qualified staff. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.10.2 Organization.  Each facility should establish a written organizational plan, which 
may be an organizational chart that clearly establishes a line of authority, 
responsibilities, and relationships.  Written personnel policies and job descriptions 
shall be prepared and given to each employee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.10.3 Relationship of staff to Governing Authority.  The administrator, personnel, 
and all auxiliary organizations shall be directly or indirectly responsible to the 
governing authority. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 11 THE LICENSEE 
Rule 45.11.1 Responsibility.  The licensee shall be the person who the licensing agency will 
hold responsible for the operation of the home in compliance with these 
regulations.  The licensee may serve as the administrator or may appoint someone 
to be the administrator.  The licensee shall be responsible for submitting to the 
licensing agency the plans and specifications for the building, the applications for 
license, and such reports as are required. 
1. Initial Application.  The licensee shall submit the following with his initial 
application: 
a. References in regard to this character, temperament, and experience background 
from three (3) responsible persons not related to him.  The licensing agency 
reserves the right to make investigations from its own source regarding the 
character of the applicant. 
b. Whether the governing body will be a private proprietary, partnership, 
corporation, governmental, or other (non-profit, church, etc.).  If a partnership, 
<<<PAGE 656>>>
 
656 
  
the full name and address of each partner.  If a corporation or other, the name, 
address, and title of each officer.  If governmental, the unit of government. 
2. Application for License.  Application for license or relicense shall be submitted in 
form and content pursuant to the instructions of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 12 ADMINISTRATOR 
Rule 45.12.1 Responsibility. 
1. There shall be a licensed administrator with authority and responsibility for the 
operation of the facility in all its administrative and professional functions subject 
only to the policies enacted by the governing authority and to such orders as it 
may issue.  The administrator shall be the direct representative of the governing 
authority in the management of the facility and shall be responsible to said 
governing authority for the proper performance of duties. 
2. There shall be a qualified individual present in the facility responsible to the 
administrator in matters of administration who shall represent him during the 
absence.  The persons shall not be a resident of the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.12.2 Qualifications.  The administrator shall be chosen primarily for his 
administrative ability to establish proper working relationship with physicians, 
nurse practitioners, and employees of the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 13 FINANCIAL 
Rule 45.13.1 Accounting.  Accounting methods and procedures should be carried out in 
accordance with a recognized system of good business practice.  The method and 
procedure used should be sufficient to permit annual audit, accurate determination 
of the cost of operation and the cost per resident per day. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.2 Financial Structure.  All facilities shall have a financial plan which guarantees 
sufficient resources to meet operating cost at all times and to maintain standards 
required by these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.3 Admission Agreement.  Prior to or at the time of admission, the administrator 
and the resident or the resident's responsible party shall execute in writing a 
<<<PAGE 657>>>
 
657 
  
financial agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed in two or more 
copies, one copy given to the resident or his sponsor, and one copy placed on file 
in the license facility.As a minimum this agreement shall contain: 
1.  Basic charges agreed upon (room, board, laundry, nursing, and/or personal care). 
2. Period to be covered in the charges. 
3. Services for which special charges are made. 
4. Agreement regarding refund for any payments made in advance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.4 No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee and the 
resident or his responsible party which will relieve the licensee of responsibility 
for the protection of the person and of the rights of the individual admitted to the 
facility for care, as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.5 A record of all sums of money received from each resident shall be kept up-to-
date and available for inspection. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.6 The resident or his lawful agent shall be furnished a receipt signed by the lawful 
agent of the institution for all sums paid over to the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.7 Neither the licensee or any employee shall misuse or misappropriate any property 
real or personal, belonging to a resident of the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.8 Undue influence or coercion shall not be used in procuring a transfer of funds or 
property or in procuring a contract or agreement providing for payment of funds 
or delivery of property belonging to a resident of the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.9 Agreements between a facility and a resident relative to cost of care shall include 
adequate arrangements for such emergency medical or hospital care as may be 
required by the resident. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 658>>>
 
658 
  
Rule 45.13.10 No licensee, owner, or administrator of a facility; a member of their family; an 
employee of the facility; or a person who has financial interest in the home shall 
act as the legal guardian for a resident of the facility.  This requirement shall not 
apply if the resident is related within the third degree as computed by civil law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.13.11 Resident Admission.  Prior to initial licensure of each facility, a written schedule 
for resident admission shall be developed and submitted to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 14 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)  
The licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan utilizing 
theEmergency Operations Plan (EOP) Template developed by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health, Office of Emergency Planning and Response. “All 
Hazards” and “Whole Community” approach to emergency and disaster 
planning. The plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any 
pandemic, act of terrorism, or man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for 
the specific geographical location. The final draft of the Emergency Operations 
Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by the Office of Emergency Planning and 
Response, Mississippi State Department of Health, or their designees, for 
conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency Preparedness and Response 
Plan.” Particular attention shall be given to critical areas of concern which may 
arise during any “All Hazards” emergency whether required to evacuate or to 
sustain in place. Additional plan criteria or a specified EOP format may be 
required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency Planning and 
Response. The nine (9) critical areas of consideration are: (disaster drills) 
 
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a 
format and a frequency as required by the Office of Emergency 
Planning and Response; 
 
2. Resources and Assets; 
 
3. Safety and Security; 
 
4. Staffing; 
 
5. Utilities; 
 
6. Clinical Activities; 
<<<PAGE 659>>>
 
659 
  
 
7. Exercises - Exercises shall be conducted a minimum of two (2) times per 
year; 
 
8. Smoke Detectors/Extinguishers (refer to NFPA 10 and NFPA 72); and 
 
9. Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP) to include surge and alternate 
care sites. 
 
Rule 45.14.1 Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or as 
directed by the Office of Emergency Planning and Response. Written evidence of 
current verification or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of Emergency Planning 
and Response, shall accompany all applications for facility license renewals  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.14.2 Facility Fire Preparedness 
1. Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
2. Written Records.  Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
3. A fire evacuation plan for the facility shall be posted in each facility in a 
conspicuous place and kept current.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 15 PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
Rule 45.15.1 Administration Facilities.  Each facility shall provide an office space and/or 
administrative office(s). 
1. As a minimum, the office space and/or administrative office(s) shall be provided 
with a desk, file drawer or cabinet, and related office equipment and supplies. 
2. Facilities caring for twenty-five (25) or more residents should provide a separate 
room(s) for these facilities. 
3. Each facility should provide a waiting room or space for the public. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.15.2 Communication Facilities.  Each facility shall have an adequate number of 
telephones and extensions to summon help in case of fire or other emergency, and 
<<<PAGE 660>>>
 
660 
  
these shall be located so as to be quickly accessible from all parts of the building.  
The telephone shall be listed under the official licensed name of the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 16 RECORDS AND REPORTS 
Rule 45.16.1 General.  Each facility shall submit such records and reports as the licensing 
agency may request. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.2 Annual Report.  An annual report shall be submitted to the licensing agency by 
each facility upon such uniform dates and shall contain such information in such 
form as the licensing agency prescribes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.3  
1. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background 
history checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a 
covered entity. The term employee”, also includes any individual who 
by contract with the covered entity provides direct patient care in a 
patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or in treatment rooms. The term 
“employee” does not include healthcare professional/technical students, 
as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a 
licensed entity under contracts between their schools and the licensed 
entity, and does not include students at high schools who observe the 
treatment and care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the 
requirements of an allied health course taught in the school if: 
 
A. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; 
 
B. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s 
school stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or 
nolo contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses 
listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, 
burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse 
and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea 
was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea; and 
 
<<<PAGE 661>>>
 
661 
  
C. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are 
exempt from application of the term employee under Section 43-11-13. 
 
2. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, 
“covered entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional 
staffing agency. 
 
3. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the 
term “licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, 
home health agency or hospice. 
 
4. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program. 
For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care 
professional/vocational technical academic program” means an academic 
program in medicine, nursing, dentistry, occupational therapy, physical 
therapy, social services, speech therapy, or other allied-health professional 
whose purpose is to prepare professionals to render patient care services. 
 
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student. For 
purposes of criminal history record checks, the term means a student 
enrolled in a healthcare professional/vocational technical academic 
program. 
 
6. Direct Patient Care or Services. For purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means 
direct hands-on medical patient care and services provided by an individual 
in a patient’s, resident’s or client’s room, treatment room or recovery room. 
Individuals providing direct patient care may be directly employed by the 
facility or provides patient care on a contractual basis. 
 
7. Documented Disciplinary Action. For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary 
action” means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a 
patient. 
 
8. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity 
shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the professional 
<<<PAGE 662>>>
 
662 
  
licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any disciplinary 
action has been taken against the employee by the agency, and a criminal 
history record check on: 
 
A. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct 
patient care or services; and  
 
B. Any individual seeking new employment with a covered entity 
whose initial criminal history record check is over two years.  
 
9. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired 
on or after July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient 
care until the results of the criminal history record check revealed no 
disqualifying record or the employee has been granted a waiver. 
Provided the covered entity has documented evidence of submission 
of fingerprints for the background check, any person may be 
employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary basis 
pending the results of the criminal history record check but any 
employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be 
voidable, if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check 
and no waiver is granted. 
 
10. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a 
guilty plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) 
or more of the following crimes which has not been reversed on 
appeal, or for which a pardon has not been granted, the 
applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be employed at the 
licensed facility: 
 
A. possession or sale of drugs 
 
B. murder 
 
C. manslaughter 
 
D. armed robbery 
 
E. rape 
 
<<<PAGE 663>>>
 
663 
  
F. sexual battery 
 
G. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 1972 
 
H. child abuse 
 
I. arson 
 
J. grand larceny 
 
K. burglary 
 
L. gratification of lust 
 
M. aggravated assault 
 
N. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
 
11. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if 
any, with the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and 
evidence of submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing 
agency must be on file and maintained by the facility prior to the new 
employees first date of employment. The covered entity shall maintain on 
file evidence of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status from any 
applicable professional licensing agency and of submission and/or 
completion of the criminal record check, the signed affidavit, if applicable, 
and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter addressing the individual’s 
suitability for such employment. 
 
12. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency shall require every employee of a covered entity employed prior to 
July 01, 2003, to sign an affidavit stating that he or she does not have a 
criminal history as outlined in paragraph (3) above. 
 
13. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered entity hired 
before July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care 
unless the employee has signed an affidavit as required by this section. 
The covered entity shall place the affidavit in the employee’s personnel 
<<<PAGE 664>>>
 
664 
  
file as proof of compliance with this section. 
 
14. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is later 
determined that the person actually had been convicted of or pleaded guilty 
or nolo contendere to any of the offenses listed herein, and the conviction 
or pleas has not been reversed on appeal or a pardon has not been granted 
for the conviction or plea, the person is guilty of perjury as set out in 
Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972. The covered entity shall 
immediately institute termination proceedings against the employee 
pursuant to the facility’s policies and procedures. 
 
15. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable to 
sign the affidavit required by paragraph (7) of this subsection or any 
employee applicant aggrieved by the employment decision under this 
subsection to appear before the covered entity’s hiring officer, or his or her 
designee, to show mitigating circumstances that may exist and allow the 
employee or employee applicant to be employed at the covered entity. The 
covered entity, upon report and recommendation of the hiring officer, may 
grant waivers for those mitigating circumstances, which shall include, but 
not be limited to: (1) age at which the crime was committed; (2) 
circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of time since the 
conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; (5) 
current employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to the 
health or safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
 
16. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the 
fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
 
17. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check 
reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) 
weeks of the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee 
applicant with a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered entity, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee 
applicant’s suitability for employment based on his or her criminal history 
record check. An employee applicant may use that letter for a period of 
two (2) years from the date of the letter to seek employment at any covered 
entity licensed by the Mississippi State Department of Health without the 
necessity of an additional criminal record check. Any covered entity 
presented with the letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee 
applicant’s criminal background and is not required for a period of two (2) 
<<<PAGE 665>>>
 
665 
  
years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal 
history check as required in this subsection. 
 
18. For individuals contacted through a third party who provide direct patient 
care as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal 
history record check. 
 
19. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing 
agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officer, employees, attorneys, 
and representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any 
employment decision or action taken under this section. The presumption 
of good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any 
civil action. No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys, and representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.4 Employee Health Screening.  All staff of a facility shall receive a health 
screening by a licensed physician, registered nurse, or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant prior to employment and annually thereafter.  The extent of the screening 
shall be determined by committee consisting of at least a licensed physician, nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant or a registered nurse, and the facility's 
administrator. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.5 Testing for Tuberculosis 
1. Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to contact 
with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one of the 
following methods: 
 
a. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual for signs 
and symptoms of tuberculosis by medical personnel; or 
 
b. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and read by a 
licensed medical/nursing person certified in the techniques of 
tuberculin testing and an evaluation of the individual for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant, Nurse Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may be 
<<<PAGE 666>>>
 
666 
  
administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no more 
than 30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the individual 
must not be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of the RBIR 
where patients have access until receipt of the results of the 
IGRA/assessment or at least the first of the two-step Mantoux test has been 
administered/read and assessment for the signs and symptoms completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in 
millimeters. Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and 
assessment must be documented in accordance with accepted standards 
of medical/nursing practice and must be placed in the individual’s 
personnel file no later than 7 days of the individual’s date of employment. If 
an IGRA is performed, results and quantitative values must be documented. 
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive 
Mantoux skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease (TB) 
that last longer than three weeks (regardless of the size of the skin test or 
results of the IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a board 
certified Radiologist and be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a licensed 
physician within 72 hours. The employee shall not be allowed to work in 
any area where clients have routine access until evaluated by a 
physician/nurse practitioner/physician assistant and approved to return. 
Exceptions to this requirement may be made if the employee is 
asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of tuberculosis prophylactic therapy 
approved by the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) 
Tuberculosis Program for tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of multi-drug chemotherapy approved 
by the MSDH Tuberculosis Program; or 
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant tuberculin 
skin reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux testing  
or the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and symptoms must be 
conducted and must be maintained as part of the employee’s annual 
health screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is NOT required unless 
symptoms of active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin test 
and a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of the 
two- step Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in the 
<<<PAGE 667>>>
 
667 
  
employees’ personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who 
has not been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test 
cannot be documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has 
documentation that the employee has had a negative TB skin test within the 
past 12 months, a single test performed thirty (30) days prior to employment 
or immediately upon hire will fulfill the two-step requirements. As 
above, the employee shall not have contact with clients or be allowed to 
work in areas of the RBIR to which clients have routine access prior to 
reading the skin test, completing a signs and symptoms assessment and 
documenting the results and findings. 
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease 
Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding 
baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and 
education. Staff exposed to an active infectious case of tuberculosis shall be 
treated as contacts and be managed appropriately. Individuals found to 
have a significant Mantoux tuberculin skin test reaction and a chest x-
ray not suggestive of active tuberculosis, shall be evaluated by a physician 
or nurse practitioner/physician assistant for treatment of latent tuberculin 
infection. 
 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.6 Admission Record-Personal Information.  Each facility shall prepare a record 
on each resident at the time of admission on which the following minimum 
information shall be recorded: name; date of admittance; address at the time of 
admittance; race; sex; marital status; religious preference; date of birth; name; 
address, and telephone number of person responsible for resident and his/her 
relationship to him/her; and name and telephone number of physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. The date and reason for discharge shall be entered 
upon discharge of a resident. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.16.7 Reporting of Tuberculosis Testing. The facility shall report and comply with the 
annual MSDH TB Program surveillance procedures. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 17 RESIDENTS RIGHTS 
Rule 45.17.1 General.  The facility shall maintain written policies and procedures regarding 
the rights and responsibilities of residents.  These written policies and procedures 
shall be established in consultation with residents or responsible parties.  Written 
<<<PAGE 668>>>
 
668 
  
policies and procedures regarding residents' rights shall be made available to 
residents or their guardian, next of kin, sponsoring agency or agencies, or lawful 
representative and to the public.  There shall be documented evidence that the 
staff of the facility is trained and involved in the implementation of these policies 
and procedures.  In-service on residents' rights and responsibilities shall be 
conducted annually.  These rights and responsibilities shall be posted throughout 
the facility for the benefit of all staff and residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.17.2 Residents' Rights.  The residents' rights policies and procedures ensure that each 
resident admitted to the facility: 
1. is fully informed, as evidenced by the resident's written acknowledgment, prior to 
or at the time of admission and during stay, of these rights and is given a 
statement of the facility's rules and regulations and an explanation of the resident's 
responsibility to obey all reasonable regulations of the facility and to respect the 
personal rights and private property of other residents; 
2. is fully informed, and is given a written statement prior to or at time of admission 
and during stay, of services available in the facility, and of related charges 
including any charges for services covered by the facility's basic per diem rate; 
3. is assured of adequate and appropriate medical care, is fully informed by a 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant of his medical conditions 
unless medically contraindicated (as documented by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record), is afforded the opportunity 
to participate in the planning of his medical treatment, to not be limited in his/her 
choice of a pharmacy or pharmacist provider in accordance with state law, as 
referenced in House Bill 1439, which states that the facility shall not limit a 
resident’s choice of pharmacy or pharmacy provider if that provider meets the 
same standards of dispensing guidelines required of long term care facilities, to 
refuse to participate in experimental research, and to refuse medication and 
treatment after fully informed of and understanding the consequences of such 
action; 
4. is transferred or discharged only for medical reasons, or for his welfare or that of 
other residents, or for nonpayment for his stay (except as prohibited by sources of 
third-party payment), and is given a two weeks advance notice in writing to 
ensure orderly transfer or discharge.  A copy of this notice is maintained in his 
medical record; 
5. is encouraged and assisted, throughout his period of stay, to exercise his rights as a 
resident and as a citizen, and to this end may voice grievances, has a right of 
action for damages or other relief for deprivations or infringements of his right to 
adequate and proper treatment and care established by an applicable statute, rule, 
regulation or contract, and to recommend changes in policies and services to 
<<<PAGE 669>>>
 
669 
  
facility staff and/or to outside representatives of his choice, free from restraint, 
interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal; 
6. may manage his personal financial affairs, or is given at least a quarterly 
accounting of financial transactions made on his behalf should the facility accept 
his written delegation of this responsibility to the facility for any period of time in 
conformance with State law;  
7. is free from mental and physical abuse; 
8. is free from restraint except by order of a physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant, or unless it is determined that the resident is a threat to himself or to 
others.  Physical and chemical restraints shall be used for medical conditions that 
warrant the use of a restraint.  Restraint is not to be used for discipline or staff 
convenience.  The facility must have policies and procedures addressing the use 
and monitoring of restraint.  A physician order for restraint must be countersigned 
within 24 hours of the emergency application of the restraint; 
9. is assured security in storing personal possessions and confidential treatment of his 
personal and medical records, and may approve or refuse their release to any 
individual outside the facility, except, in the case of his transfer to another health 
care institution, or as required by law of third-party payment contract; 
10. is treated with consideration, respect, and full recognition of his dignity and 
individuality, including privacy in treatment and in care for his personal needs; 
11. is not required to perform services for the facility that are not included for 
therapeutic purposes in his plan of care; 
12. may associate and communicate privately with persons of his choice, may join 
with other residents or individuals within or outside of the facility to work for 
improvements in resident care, and send and receive his personal mail unopened, 
unless medically contraindicated (as documented by his physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record); 
13. may meet with, and participate in activities of, social, religious and community 
groups at his discretion, unless medically contraindicated (as documented by his 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record); 
14. may retain and use his personal clothing and possessions as space permits, unless 
to do so would infringe upon rights of other residents, unless medically 
contraindicated (as documented by his physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant in his medical record); 
15. if married, is assured privacy for visits by his/her spouse; if both are inpatients in 
the facility, they are permitted to share a room, unless medically contraindicated 
(as documented by the attending physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant in the medical record); and 
<<<PAGE 670>>>
 
670 
  
16. is assured of exercising his civil and religious liberties including the right to 
independent personal decisions and knowledge of available choice.  The facility 
shall encourage and assist in the fullest exercise of these rights. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.17.3 All rights and responsibilities specified in paragraph (1) through (16) of Section 
Rule 45.17.2, as they pertain to (1) a resident adjudicated incompetent in 
accordance with State law, (2) a resident who is found by his physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant to be medically incapable of understanding these 
rights, or (3) a resident who exhibits a communication barrier, devolve to and 
shall be exercised by the resident's guardian, next of kin, sponsoring agencies, or 
representative payee (except when the facility is representative payee). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 18 STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 45.18.1 Orientation.  Each employee shall receive thorough orientation to the position, 
the facility, and its policies. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.18.2 In-service Training.  Appropriate in-service education programs shall be 
provided to all employees on an on-going basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.18.3 Training Records. A written record shall be maintained of all orientation and in-
service training sessions. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.18.4 Administrator Mentoring.  Administrators shall be scheduled to spend two (2) 
concurrent days with the licensing agency for the purpose of training and 
mentoring.  Placement of an administrator with the licensing agency may include, 
but not be limited to, assignments within the licensing agency’s central offices or 
placement with a survey team.  Any costs associated with placements for the 
purposes of this section shall be borne by the licensed facility at which the 
administrator is employed.  The administrator shall keep confidential and not 
disclose to any other persons any identifying information about any person or 
entity that he/she learned while observing operations as required by this section, 
except as otherwise mandated by law. 
1. This section shall apply to administrators who: 
a. received their license from the Mississippi Board of Nursing Home 
Administrators on or after January 1, 2002; and 
<<<PAGE 671>>>
 
671 
  
b. have been employed by a licensed facility for less than six (6) months, during 
which time the placement must be completed. 
2. This section shall not apply to administrators who: 
a. received a license from the Mississippi Board of Nursing Home Administrators 
on or prior to December 31, 2001; or 
b. who were previously employed by the licensing agency in a surveyor capacity. 
3. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the administrator from serving in such capacity for a licensed facility 
until a placement is completed. 
4. This section shall go into effect January 1, 2002 and thereafter. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.18.5 Surveyor Mentoring.  Surveyors shall be scheduled to spend two (2) concurrent 
days with a licensed facility for the purpose of training and mentoring.  Selection 
of a licensed facility for placement of the surveyor shall be done at the discretion 
of the licensing agency, except no licensed facility shall be required to accept 
more than two (2) placements in any calendar year.  Upon completion of said 
training, the surveyor shall not participate in a survey of the same licensed facility 
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of training placement.  Any 
costs associated with the placement of a surveyor for the purposes of this section 
shall be borne by the licensing agency.  The surveyor shall keep confidential and 
not disclose to any other persons any identifying information about any person or 
entity that the surveyor learned while observing operations as required by this 
section, except as otherwise mandated by law. 
1. This section shall apply to surveyors who have been employed by the licensing 
agency in a surveyor capacity for less than six (6) months, during which time the 
placement must be completed. 
2. This section shall not apply to surveyors who were previously employed by a 
licensed facility. 
3. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the surveyor from serving in such capacity for the licensing agency 
until a placement is completed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 19 MEDICAL, NURSING, AND PERSONAL SERVICES:  PHYSICAL 
FACILITIES 
<<<PAGE 672>>>
 
672 
  
Rule 45.19.1 Nursing Unit.  Medical, nursing, and personal service shall be provided in a 
specifically designated area which shall include bedrooms, special care room(s), 
nurses' station, utility room, toilet and bathing facilities, linen and storage closets, 
and wheelchair space.  The maximum nursing unit shall be sixty (60) beds. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.2 Bedrooms. 
1. Location. 
a. All resident bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be below 
grade.  Window area shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the required floor 
area.  The window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches from the floor. 
b. Resident bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of unpleasant 
odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
c. Resident bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor of the 
nursing unit providing that accessibility from any public space other than the 
dining room will be acceptable.  In no case shall a resident bedroom be used for 
access to another resident bedroom. 
d. All resident bedrooms shall be so located that the resident can travel from 
his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or toilet or bathing 
facility without having to go through another resident bedroom. 
2. Floor Area.  Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be as follows: Private room 
one-hundred (100) square feet, Multi-bed room eighty (80) square feet, per 
resident.  This provision shall apply only to initial licensure, new construction, 
additions, and renovations. 
3. Provisions for Privacy. 
a. Existing Facilities.  Cubicle curtains, screening, or other suitable provisions for 
privacy shall be provided in multi-bed resident bedrooms. 
b. Initial Licensure, New Construction, Additions and Renovations.  Cubicle 
curtains, screening, or other suitable provisions for privacy shall be provided in 
multi-bed resident bedrooms. Cubicle curtains shall completely enclose the bed 
from three (3) sides.   
4. Accommodations for Residents.  The minimum accommodations for each 
resident shall include: 
a. Bed.  The resident shall be provided with either an adjustable bed or a regular 
single bed, according to needs of the resident, with a good grade mattress at 
least four (4) inches thick.  Beds shall be single except in case of special 
<<<PAGE 673>>>
 
673 
  
approval of the licensing agency. Cots and roll-a-way beds are prohibited for 
resident use.  Full and half bed rails shall be available to assist in safe care of 
residents. 
b. Pillows, linens, and necessary coverings. 
c. Chair. 
d. Bedside cabinet or table. 
e. Storage space for clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings including rod 
for clothes hanging. 
f. Means at bedside for signaling attendants. 
g. Bed pans or urinals for residents who need them. 
h. Over-bed tables as required. 
5. Bed Maximum.  Bedrooms in new facilities shall be limited to two (2) beds. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.3 Special Care Room.  Each facility shall have a special care room which shall be 
a single bedroom with at least a private half bath (lavatory and water closet).  
There shall be a special care room for each thirty (30) beds or major fraction 
thereof.  A special care room shall meet the requirements of Rule 45.20.2(3) and 
may be located anywhere in the building rather than a certain number per station. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.4 Nurses' Station. 
1. Each facility shall have a nurses' station for each nursing unit.  The nurses' station 
includes as minimum the following: 
a. Annunciator board or other equipment for resident's call. 
b. The minimum areas of the medicine storage/preparation room shall be seventy-
five (75) square feet. 
c. Storage space for residents' medical records and nurses' charts. 
d. Lavatory or sink with disposable towel dispenser. 
e. Desk or counter top space adequate for recording and charting purposes by 
physicians, nurse practitioners/physician assistants, and nurses. 
2. The nurses' station area shall be well lighted. 
<<<PAGE 674>>>
 
674 
  
3. It is recommended that a nurses' lounge with toilet be provided for nursing 
personnel adjacent to the station.  A refrigerator for the storage of drugs shall be 
provided at each nurses’ station.  Drugs and food for beverages may be stored 
together only if separate compartments or containers are provided for the storage 
of drugs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.5 Utility Room.  Each facility shall provide a separate utility room for soiled and 
clean resident care equipment, such as bed pans, urinals, etc.  The soiled utility 
room shall contain, as a minimum, the following equipment. 
1. Provision for cleaning utensils such as bed pans, urinals, et cetera. 
2. Lavatory or sink and disposable towel dispenser.  The utility room for clean 
equipment shall have suitable storage. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.6 Toilet and Bathing Facilities. 
1. Lavatory, toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided in each nursing unit as 
follows: 
a. Bathing Facilities    2 per nursing unit 
b. Combination toilet and lavatory  2 per nursing unit 
2. As a minimum, showers shall be thirty (30) inches by sixty (60) inches without 
curbing. 
3. Handrails shall be provided for all tubs, showers, and commodes. 
4. In addition to the requirements set forth above, a lavatory shall be provided in each 
resident bedroom or in a toilet room that is directly accessible from the bedroom. 
5. In addition to the requirements set forth above, a toilet shall be located in a room 
directly accessible from each resident bedroom.  The minimum area for a room 
containing only a toilet shall be three (3) feet by six (6) feet. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.19.7 Other rooms and areas.  In addition to the above facilities, each nursing unit 
shall include the following rooms and areas: 
1. linen closet; 
2. wheelchair space. 
<<<PAGE 675>>>
 
675 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 20 REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION 
Rule 45.20.1 Physical Examination Required.  Each resident shall be given a complete 
physical examination 30 days prior to admission and annually thereafter, 
including a history of tuberculosis exposure and an assessment for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis, by a licensed physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant.  The findings shall be entered as part of the Admission Record.  The 
report of the examination shall include: 
1. Orders, dated and signed, by a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant 
for the immediate care of the resident to include medication treatment, activities, 
and diet.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.20.2 Tuberculosis (TB).  Admission Requirements to Rule Out Active Tuberculosis 
(TB) 
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior to the 
resident’s admission to the “Licensed facility”: 
a. TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant or a Licensed Nurse Practitioner, and 
b. A chest x-ray taken and a written interpretation. 
2. Admission to the facility shall be based on the results of the required tests as 
follows: 
a. Residents with an abnormal chest x-ray and/or signs and symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test 
(TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA (blood test) drawn 
and results documented within 30 days prior to the patient’s admission to the 
“Licensed facility”.  Evaluation for active TB shall be at the recommendation 
of the MSDH and shall be prior to admission.  If TB is ruled out  and the first 
step of the TST is negative, the second step of the two-step TST shall be 
completed and documented within 10-21 days of admission.  TST 
administration and reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an IGRA 
(blood test) is done, TST (first and/or second step) is not done. 
b. Residents with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or symptoms of TB shall 
have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with the initial 
step of a the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 days prior to the 
<<<PAGE 676>>>
 
676 
  
day of admission.  IF TST is done, the second step shall be completed within 
10-21 days of the first step.  TST administration and reading shall be done by 
certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, a TST is not done (first or 
second step). 
c. Residents with a significant TST OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall be 
monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB (cough, sputum 
production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night sweats, especially if the 
symptoms have lasted longer than three weeks) and if these symptoms develop, 
shall have an evaluation for TB per the recommendations of the MSDH within 
72 hours.  
d. Residents with a non significant TST or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual tuberculosis testing within thirty (30) days 
of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing is used, IGRA 
testing should continue to be used rather than TST testing. 
e. Residents with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood test) 
on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse practitioner or 
physician or physician’s assistant.   
f. Active or suspected Active TB Admission.  If a resident has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission to the facility is required 
from the MSDH TB State Medical Consultant. 
g. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
i. Resident has prior documentation of a significant TST/ positive IGRA. 
ii. Resident has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment regimen for 
latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
iii. Resident is excluded by a physician, nurse practitioner/physician assistant due 
to medical contraindications. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.20.3 Transfer to another facility or return of a resident to respite care shall be 
based on the above tests (Rule 47.12.3) if done within the past 12 months and the 
patient has no signs and symptoms of TB. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 677>>>
 
677 
  
Rule 45.20.4 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office.  If a resident has signs or 
symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the licensed facility shall notify the 
MSDH, the hospital, transporting staff and the physician’s office prior to 
transferring the resident to a hospital.  Appropriate isolation and evaluation shall 
be the responsibility of the hospital and physician.  If a resident has or is 
suspected to have active TB, prior written approval for admission or readmission 
to the facility is required from the MSDH TB State Consultant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 21 RESIDENT CARE 
Rule 45.21.1 Service Beyond Capability of the Home. Whenever a resident requires 
hospitalization or medical, nursing, or other care beyond the capabilities and 
facilities of the home, prompt effort shall be made to transfer the 
patient/resident to a hospital or other appropriate medical facility. In regard to 
the transfer of a ventilator dependent patient to another hospital or other 
location, the facility shall assure that equipment as necessary and a trained and 
competent registered nurse, respiratory therapist, nurse practitioner, 
physician’s assistant or a physician accompany the patient/resident to the 
receiving hospital/location. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.2 Activities of Daily Living. Each resident shall receive assistance as needed 
with activities of daily living to maintain the highest practicable well-being. 
These shall include, but not be limited to: 
 
1. Bath, dressing and grooming; 
 
2. Transfer and ambulate; 
 
3. Good nutrition, personal and oral hygiene; and 
 
4. Toileting. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.3 Pressure Sores. Residents with a pressure sore shall receive necessary 
treatment and service to promote healing and prevent the development of new 
pressure sores. Residents without pressure sores will not develop pressure 
sores unless the residents' clinical condition indicates they were unavoidable. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 678>>>
 
678 
  
Rule 45.21.4 Urinary Incontinence. Residents with urinary incontinence shall be assessed 
for need of bladder retraining program. An indwelling catheter will not be 
used unless the resident’s clinical condition indicates that catheterization is 
necessary. These residents shall receive treatment and services to prevent 
urinary tract infections. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.5 Range of Motion. Residents with limited range of motion shall receive 
treatment and services to increase range of motion or prevent further decline in 
range of motion. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.6 Mental and Psychosocial. A resident who displays adjustment difficulty 
receives appropriate treatment and services to address the assessed 
problem. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.7 Gastric Feeding. Residents who are eating alone or with assistance are not fed 
by a gastric tube unless their clinical condition indicates that the use of a 
gastric feeding tube is unavoidable. The residents who are fed by a gastric tube 
receive the treatment and services to prevent complications or to restore, if 
possible, normal eating skills. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.8 Accidents. The facility shall ensure that the residents’ environment remains as 
free of accident hazards as possible, and adequate supervision shall be provided 
to prevent accidents. If an unexplained accident occurs, this injury must be 
investigated and reported to appropriate state agencies. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.9 Nutrition. Residents shall maintain acceptable parameters of nutritional 
status, such as body weight and protein levels, unless residents’ clinical 
condition indicates that this is unavoidable. All residents shall receive diets as 
orders by their physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant. Residents 
identified with significant nutritional problems shall receive appropriate 
medical nutrition therapy based on current professional standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.21.10 Hydration. Each resident shall be provided sufficient fluid intake to 
maintain proper hydration and health. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 679>>>
 
679 
  
Rule 45.21.11 Special Needs. Each resident with special needs shall receive proper treatment 
and care. These special needs shall include but are not limited to injections; 
parenteral and enteral fluids; colostomy, ureterostomy, ileostomy care; 
tracheostomy care; tracheal suction; respiratory care; foot care; and prostheses. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 22 PHYSICIAN SERVICES 
Rule 45.22.1 General.  A physician shall personally approve in writing a recommendation that 
an individual be admitted to a facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.22.2 Designated physician.  Each resident shall have a designated physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant who is responsible for their care.  In the absence 
of the designated physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant, another 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant shall be designated to supervise 
the resident medical care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.22.3 Emergency physician.  The facility shall arrange for the provision of physician 
or nurse practitioner/physician assistant services twenty-four (24) hours a day in 
case of an emergency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.22.4 Physician visit.  The resident shall be seen by a physician or nurse practitioner 
every sixty (60) days. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 23 REHABILITATIVE SERVICES 
Rule 45.23.1 Rehabilitative services.  Residents shall be provided rehabilitative services as 
needed upon the written orders of an attending physician or nurse practitioner. 
1. The therapies shall be provided by a qualified therapist. 
2. Appropriate equipment and supplies shall be provided. 
3. Each resident’s medical record shall contain written evidence that services are 
provided in accordance with the written orders of an attending physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 24 PHARMACY SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 680>>>
 
680 
  
Rule 45.24.1 General.  The facility shall provide routine drugs, emergency drugs and 
biologicals to its residents or obtain them by agreement. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.24.2 Policies and procedures.  Each facility shall have policies and procedures to 
assure the following: 
1. Accurate acquiring; 
2. Receiving; 
3. Dispensing; 
4. Storage; and 
5. Administration of all drugs and biologicals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.24.3 Consultation.  Each facility shall obtain the services of a licensed pharmacist 
who will be responsible for: 
1. Establishing a system of records of receipt and disposition of all controlled drugs 
and to determine that drug records are in order and that an account of all 
controlled drugs are maintained and reconciled; 
2. Provide drugs regimen review in the facility on each resident every thirty (30) days 
by a licensed pharmacist; 
3. Report any irregularities to the attending physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant and the director or nursing; and 
4. Records must reflect that the consultation pharmacist monthly report is acted upon. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.24.4 Labeling of drugs.  Each facility shall follow the Mississippi State Board of 
Pharmacy labeling requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.24.5 Disposal of drugs. 
1. Unused portions of medicine may be given to a discharged resident or the 
responsible party upon orders of the prescribing physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. 
<<<PAGE 681>>>
 
681 
  
2. Drugs and pharmaceuticals discontinued by the written orders of an attending 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant or left in the facility on discharge 
or death of the resident will be disposed of according to the Mississippi State Board 
of Pharmacy disposal requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.24.6 Poisonous Substances.  All poisonous substances such as insecticides, caustic 
cleaning agents, rodenticide, and other such agents must be plainly labeled and 
kept in locked cabinet or closet.  No substances of this type shall be kept in the 
following areas:  kitchen, dining area, food storage room or pantry, medicine 
cabinet or drug room, resident's bedroom or toilet, public rooms, or spaces. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 25 MEDICAL RECORDS SERVICES 
Rule 45.25.1 
1. A medical record shall be maintained in accordance with accepted professional 
standards and practices on all residents admitted to the facility.  The medical 
records shall be completely and accurately documented, readily accessible, and 
systematically organized to facilitate retrieving and compiling information. 
2. A sufficient number of personnel, competent to carry out the functions of the 
medical record service, shall be employed. 
3. The facility shall safeguard medical record information against loss, destruction, or 
unauthorized use. 
4. All medical records shall maintain the following information:  identification data 
and consent form; assessments of the resident's needs by all disciplines involved 
in the care of the resident; medical history and admission physical exam; annual 
physical exams; physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant orders; 
observation, report of treatment, clinical findings and progress notes; and 
discharge summary, including the final diagnosis. 
5. All entries in the medical record shall be signed and dated by the person making the 
entry.  Authentication may include signatures, written initials, or computer entry.  
A list of computer codes and written signatures must be readily available and 
maintained under adequate safeguards. 
6. All clinical information pertaining to the residents stay shall be centralized in the 
resident's medical records. 
7. Medical records of discharged residents shall be completed within sixty (60) days 
following discharge. 
<<<PAGE 682>>>
 
682 
  
8. Medical records are to be retained for five (5) years from the date of discharge or, 
in the case of a minor, until the resident reaches the age of twenty-one (21), plus 
an additional three (3) years. 
9. A resident index, including the resident's full name and birth date, shall be 
maintained. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 26 SOCIAL SERVICES AND RESIDENT ACTIVITIES 
Rule 45.26.1 Program.  Each facility shall provide services to assist all residents in dealing 
with social and related problems through one or more case workers on the staff of 
the facility or through arrangements with an appropriate outside agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.26.2 Records. Social services information concerning each resident shall be obtained 
and kept.  This information shall cover social and emotional factors related to the 
resident's condition and information concerning his home situation, financial 
resources and relationships with other people. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.26.3 Training.  All nursing personnel and employees having contact with resident 
shall receive social service orientation and in-service training toward 
understanding emotional problems and social needs of residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.26.4 Personnel. At least one person in each facility shall be designated as being 
responsible for the social services aspect for care in the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.26.5 Office Space.  Office space shall be provided for social service personnel.  The 
office shall be accessible to residents and ensure privacy for interviews. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 27 RESIDENT ACTIVITIES 
Rule 45.27.1 Activity Coordinator.  An individual shall be designated as being in charge of 
resident activities.  This individual shall have experience and/or training in group 
activities, or shall have consultation made available from a qualified recreational 
therapist or group activity leader. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 683>>>
 
683 
  
Rule 45.27.2 Activity Program.  Provisions shall be made for suitable recreational and 
entertainment activities for resident according to their needs and interests.  These 
activities are an important adjunct to daily living and are to encourage restoration 
to self-care and resumption of normal activities.  Variety in planning shall include 
some outdoor activities in suitable weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.27.3 Supplies and Equipment.  The facility shall make available a variety of supplies 
and equipment adequate to satisfy the individual interests of residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.27.4 Living and/or Recreational Room(s). 
1. Each facility shall provide adequate living room(s), day room(s) and/or recreational 
room(s) for residents and visitors.  Each home should provide at least two areas 
for this purpose-one for small groups such as private visit with relatives and 
friends and one for larger group activities.  A minimum of eighteen (18) square 
feet per bed shall be provided. 
2. Dining area.  A dining area shall be provided in facilities adequate to set at least 
three-fourths of the maximum capacity of the facility.  The dining area may also 
be used for social, recreational, and/or religious services when not in use as a 
dining facility.  A minimum of fifteen (15) square feet per person for three-fourths 
(3/4) of the capacity of the facility shall be provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.27.5 Special Activities Area.  Each facility should provide space for hobbies and 
activities that cannot be included in a day room, living room, or recreational 
room. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.27.6 Outside Area.  Adequate outside space should be provided for the use of 
residents in favorable weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 28 FOOD SERVICES:  GENERAL 
Rule 45.28.1 Direction and Supervision.  Food service is one of the basic services provided 
by the facility to its residents.  Careful attention to adequate nutrition and 
prescribed modified diets contribute appreciably to the health and comfort to the 
resident and stimulate his desire to achieve and maintain a higher level of self-
care.  The facility shall provide residents with well-planned, attractive, and 
satisfying meals which will meet their nutritional, social, emotional, and 
<<<PAGE 684>>>
 
684 
  
therapeutic needs.  The dietary department of a facility shall be directed by a 
Registered Dietitian, a certified dietary manager, or a qualified dietary manager.  
If a qualified dietary manager is the director, he/she must receive frequent, 
regularly scheduled consultation from a licensed dietitian, or a registered dietitian 
exempted from licensure by statute. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 29 FOOD HANDLING PROCEDURES 
Rule 45.29.1 Safe Food Handling Procedures.  Food shall be prepared, held, and served 
according to current Mississippi State Department of Health Food Code 
Regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 30 MEAL SERVICE 
Rule 45.30.1 Meal and Nutrition.  At least three (3) meals in each twenty-four (24) hours shall 
be provided.  The daily food allowance shall meet the current recommended 
dietary allowance of the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research 
Council of the National Academy of Science adjusted for individual needs.  A 
standard food planning guide (e.g., food pyramid) or Nutrient Based Menu 
(determined by nutritional analysis) shall be used for planning and food 
purchasing.  It is not intended to meet the nutritional needs of all residents.  This 
guide must be adjusted to consider individual differences.  Some residents will 
need more or less due to age, size, gender, physical activity, or state of health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.2 Meal Planning Guidelines.  Daily Food Guide.  The daily food allowance for 
each resident shall include: 
1. Protein food.  A minimum of 2-3 servings of meat, poultry, fish, dried beans, eggs, 
or meats. (4-6 oz daily). 
2. Milk, yogurt, and cheese group:  A minimum of 2 servings daily. 
3. Vegetables and fruits:  A minimum of 5 servings daily of fruits and vegetables.  
This shall include a Vitamin C source daily and a Vitamin A source 3-4 times 
weekly. 
4. Breads, cereals, and pastas:  A minimum of 6 servings daily. 
5. Fat, oil, and sweets:  As needed for additional calories and flavor. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 685>>>
 
685 
  
Rule 45.30.3 Nutrient-Based Menu may be used in lieu of using a standard food planning 
guide.  Nutritional analysis of menus shall meet current recommended dietary 
allowances of the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of 
the national Academy of Science for age and gender. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.4 Menu.  The menu shall be planned and written at least one week in advance.  The 
current week's menu shall be approved by the dietitian, dated, posted in the 
kitchen and followed as planned.  Substitutions and changes on all diets shall be 
documented in writing.  Copies of menus and substitutions shall be kept on file 
for at least thirty (30) days. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.5 Timing of Meals. A time schedule for serving meals to residents shall be 
established.  Meals shall be served during customarily-accepted timeframes. 
There shall be no more than fourteen (14) hours between evening meal and 
breakfast meal.  There may be 16 hours between the evening meal and breakfast 
meal if approved by the resident involved and a substantial snack (including 
protein) is served before bedtime. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.6 Modified Diets.  Modified diets which are a part of medical treatment shall be 
prescribed in written orders by the physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant.  All modified diets shall be planned in writing and posted along with 
regular menus.  Liberalized Geriatric Diets are encouraged for elderly residents 
when there is a need for moderate diet therapy.  A current diet manual shall be 
available to personnel.  The dietitian shall approve all modified diet menus and 
the diet manual used in the nursing home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.7 Food Preparation. Foods shall be prepared by methods that conserve optimum 
nutritive value, flavor, and appearance.  Also, the food shall be acceptable to the 
individuals served.  A file of tested recipes shall be maintained to assure uniform 
quantity and quality of products. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.30.8 Food Supply. Supplies of perishable foods for at least a twenty-four (24) hour 
period and or non-perishable foods for a three (3) day period shall be on the 
premises to meet the requirements of the planned menus.  The non-perishable 
foods shall consist of commercial type processed foods. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 686>>>
 
686 
  
Rule 45.30.9 Serving of Meals. 
1. Table should be of a type to seat not more than four (4) or six (6) residents.  
Residents who are not able to go to the dining room shall be provided sturdy 
tables (not TV trays) of proper heights.  For those who are bedfast or infirm tray 
service shall be provided in their rooms with the tray resting on a firm support. 
2. Personnel eating meals or snacks on the premises shall be provided facilities 
separate from and outside of food preparation, tray service, and dishwashing 
areas. 
3. Foods shall be attractively and neatly served.  All foods shall be served at proper 
temperature.  Effective equipment shall be provided and procedures established to 
maintain food at proper temperature during serving. 
4. All trays, tables, utensils and supplies such as china, glassware, flatware, linens and 
paper placemats, or tray covers used for meal service shall be appropriate, 
sufficient in quantity and in compliance with the applicable sanitation standard. 
5. Food Service personnel.  A competent person shall be designated by the 
administrator to be responsible for the total food service of the home.  Sufficient 
staff shall be employed to meet the established standards of food service.  
Provisions should be made for adequate supervision and training of the 
employees. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 31 PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
Rule 45.31.1 Floors.  Floors in food service areas shall be of such construction so as to be 
easily cleaned, sound, smooth, non-absorbent, and without cracks or crevices.  
Also, floors shall be kept in good repair. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.2 Walls and Ceilings. Walls and ceilings of food service areas shall be of tight and 
substantial construction, smoothly finished, and painted in a light color.  The 
walls and ceilings shall be without horizontal ledges and shall be washable up to 
the highest level reached by splash and spray.  Roofs and walls shall be 
maintained free of leaks.  All openings to the exterior shall be provided with 
doors or windows that will prevent the entrance of rain or dust during inclement 
weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.3 Screens and Outside Openings.  Openings to the outside shall be effectively 
screened.  Screen doors shall open outward and be equipped with self-closing 
devices.  
<<<PAGE 687>>>
 
687 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.4 Lighting. The kitchen, dishwashing area, and dining room shall be provided with 
well distributed and unobstructed natural light or openings.  Artificial light 
properly distributed and of an intensity of not less than thirty (30) foot candles 
shall be provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.5 Ventilation.  The food service area shall be ventilated in a manner that will 
maintain comfortable working conditions, remove objectionable odors and fumes, 
and prevent excessive condensations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.6 Employee Toilet Facilities. Toilet facilities with lockers shall be provided for 
employees.  Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in which food is 
prepared, stored, displayed or served, nor into any room in which utensils are 
washed or stored.  Toilet rooms shall have a lavatory and shall be well lighted and 
ventilated. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.7 Hand washing Facilities. Hand washing facilities with hot and cold water, soap 
dispenser and a supply of soap, and disposable towels shall be provided in all 
kitchens.  The use of a common towel is prohibited.  Hands shall not be washed in 
sinks where food is prepared or where utensils are cleaned. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.8 Refrigeration Facilities. Adequate refrigeration facilities, automatic in operation, 
for the storage of perishable foods shall be provided.  Where separate 
refrigeration can be provided, the recommended temperatures for storing 
perishable foods are thirty-two (32) to forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit for meats and 
dairy products, and forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit to forty-five (45)for fruits and 
vegetables.  If it is impractical to provide separate refrigeration, the temperature 
shall be maintained at forty-one (41) degrees Fahrenheit.  Freezers shall be 
maintained at zero (0) degrees Fahrenheit or below.  All refrigerators shall be 
provided with a thermometer.  Homes with more than twenty-four (24) beds shall 
have commercial or institutional type refrigeration. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.31.9 Equipment and Utensil Construction.  Equipment and utensils shall be 
constructed so as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in good repair. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 688>>>
 
688 
  
Rule 45.31.10 Separation of Kitchen from Resident Rooms and Sleeping Quarters. Any 
room used for sleeping quarters shall be separated from the food service area by a 
solid wall.  Sleeping accommodations such as a cot, bed, or couch shall not be 
permitted within the food service area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 32 AREAS AND EQUIPMENT 
Rule 45.32.1 Location and Space Requirements.  Food service facilities shall be located in a 
specifically designated area and shall include the following rooms and/or spaces:  
kitchen, dishwashing, food storage, and dining room. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.32.2 Kitchen. 
1. Size and Dimensions.  The minimum area of kitchen (food preparation only) for 
less than twenty-five (25) beds shall be a minimum area of two hundred (200) 
square feet.  In facilities with twenty five (25) beds to sixty (60) beds, a minimum 
of ten (10) square feet per bed shall be provided.  In facilities with sixty-one (61) 
to eighty (80) beds, a minimum of six (6) square feet per bed shall be provided for 
each bed over sixty (60) in the home.  In facilities with eighty-one (81) to one 
hundred (100) beds, a minimum of five (5) square feet per bed shall be provided 
for each bed over eighty (80).  In facilities with more than one hundred (100) beds 
proportionate space approved by the licensing agency shall be provided.  Also, the 
kitchen shall be of such size and dimensions in order to: 
a. Permit orderly and sanitary handling and processing of food. 
b. Avoid overcrowding and congestion of operations. 
c. Provide at least three (3) feet between working areas and wider if space is used 
as a passageway. 
d. Provide a ceiling height of at least eight (8) feet. 
2. Equipment.  Minimum equipment in kitchen shall include: 
a. Range and cooking equipment.  Facilities with more than twenty-four (24) beds 
shall have institutional type ranges, ovens, steam cookers, fryers, etc., in 
appropriate sizes and number to meet the food preparation needs of the facility.  
The cooking equipment shall be equipped with a hood vented to the outside as 
appropriate. 
b. Refrigerator and Freezers.  Facilities with more than twenty-four (24) beds shall 
have sufficient commercial or institutional type refrigeration/freezer units to 
meet the storage needs of the facility. 
<<<PAGE 689>>>
 
689 
  
c. Bulletin Board. 
d. Clock. 
e. Cook's table. 
f. Counter or table for tray set-up. 
g. Cans garbage (heavy plastic or galvanized). 
h. Lavatories, hand washing; conveniently located throughout the department. 
i. Pots, pans, silverware, dishes, and glassware in sufficient numbers with storage 
space for each. 
j. Pot and Pan Sink.  A three compartment sink shall be provided for cleaning pots 
and pans.  Each compartment shall be a minimum of twenty-four (24) inches by 
twenty (24) inches by sixteen (16) inches.  A drain board of approximately 
thirty (30) inches shall be provided at each end of the sink, one to be used for 
stacking soiled utensils and the other for draining clean utensils. 
k. Food Preparation Sink.  A double compartment food preparation sink shall 
provide for washing vegetables and other foods.   A drain board shall be 
provided at each end of the sink. 
l. Ice Machine.   At least one ice machine shall be provided.  If there is only one 
(1) ice machine in the facility it shall be located adjacent to but not in the 
kitchen.  If there is an ice machine located at nursing station, then ice machine 
for dietary shall be located in the kitchen. 
m. Office.  An office shall be provided near the kitchen for the use of the food 
service supervisor.  As a minimum, the space provided shall be adequate for a 
desk, two chairs and a filing cabinet. 
n. Coffee Tea and Milk Dispenser.  (Milk dispenser not required if milk is served 
in individual cartons). 
o. Tray assembly line equipment with tables, hot food tables, tray slide, etc. 
p. Ice Cream Storage. 
q. Mixer.  Institutional type mixer of appropriate size for facility. 
r. Food Processor. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.32.3 Dishwashing. Commercial or institutional type dishwashing equipment shall be 
provided in homes with more than twenty-four (24) beds.  The dishwashing area 
<<<PAGE 690>>>
 
690 
  
shall be separated from the food preparation area.  If sanitizing is to be 
accomplished by hot water, a minimum temperature of one hundred eighty (180) 
degrees Fahrenheit shall be maintained during the rinsing cycle.  An alternate 
method of sanitizing through use of chemicals may be provided if sanitizing 
standards of the Mississippi State Department of Health Food Code Regulations 
are observed.  Adequate counter-space for stacking soiled dishes shall be provided 
in the dishwashing area at the most convenient place of entry from the dining 
room, followed by a disposer with can storage under the counter.  There shall be a 
pre-rinse sink, then the dishwasher and finally a counter or drain for clean dishes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.32.4 Food Storage. A food-storage room with cross ventilation shall be provided.  
Adequate shelving, bins, and heavy plastic or galvanized cans shall be provided.  
The storeroom shall be of such construction as to prevent the invasion of rodents 
and insects, the seepage of dust and water leakage, or any other source of 
contamination.  The food-storage room should be adjacent to the kitchen and 
convenient to the receiving area.  The minimum area for a food-storage room 
shall equal two and one-half (2 1/2) square feet per bed and the width of the aisle 
shall be a minimum of three (3) feet. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 33 SANITATION AND MEDICAL WASTE:  SANITATION 
Rule 45.33.1 Water Supply. 
1. If at all possible, all water shall be obtained from a public water supply.  If not 
possible to obtain water from a public water supply source, the private water 
supply shall meet the approval of the local county health department and/or the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
2. Water under pressure sufficient to operate fixtures at the highest point during 
maximum demand periods shall be provided.  Water under pressure of at least 
fifteen (15) pounds per square inch shall be piped to all sinks, toilets, lavatories, 
tubs, showers, and other fixtures requiring water. 
3. It is recommended that the water supply into the facility can be obtained from two 
(2) separate water lines if possible. 
4. A dual hot water supply shall be provided.  The temperature of hot water to 
lavatories and bathing facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifteen (115) 
degrees Fahrenheit, nor shall hot water be less than one hundred (100) degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
5. Each facility shall have a written agreement for an alternate source of potable water 
in the event of a disruption of the normal water supply. 
<<<PAGE 691>>>
 
691 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.33.2 Disposal of Liquid and Human Wastes. 
1. There shall be installed within the facility a properly designed waste disposal 
system connecting to all fixtures to which water under pressure is piped. 
2. All liquid and human waste, including floor-wash water and liquid waste from 
refrigerators, shall be disposed of through trapped drains into a public sewer 
system where such system is available. 
3. In localities where a public sanitary sewer is not available, liquid and human 
waste shall be disposed of through trapped drains into sewerage disposal system 
approved by the local county health department and/or the Mississippi State 
Department of Health.  The sewerage disposal system shall be of a size and 
capacity based on the number of residents and personnel housed and employed 
in the facility.  Where the sewerage disposal system is installed prior to the 
opening of the facility, it shall be assumed, unless proven otherwise, that the 
system was designed for ten (10) or fewer persons. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.33.3 Premises. The premises shall be kept neat, clean, and free of an accumulation 
of rubbish, weeds, ponded water, or other conditions which would have a 
tendency to create a health hazard. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.33.4 Control of insects, rodents, etc. The facility shall be kept free of ants, flies, 
roaches, rodents, and other insects and vermin.  Proper methods for their 
eradication and control shall be utilized. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.33.5 Toilet Room Cleanliness. Floors, walls, ceilings, and fixtures of all toilet 
rooms shall be kept clean and free of objectionable odors.  These rooms shall be 
kept free of an accumulation of rubbish, cleaning supplies, toilet articles, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.33.6 Garbage Disposal. 
1. Garbage must be kept in water-tight suitable containers with tight fitting covers.  
Garbage containers must be emptied at frequent intervals and cleaned before 
using again. 
2. Proper disposition of infectious materials shall be observed. 
<<<PAGE 692>>>
 
692 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 34 REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE 
Rule 45.34.1  Standards and Requirements.  REPEALED. Effective 01.13.2023 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.34.2 Medical Waste. REPEALED. Effective 01.13.2023 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.34.3 Medical Waste Management Plan.  All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan in 
accordance with Adopted Standards for the Regulation of Medical Waste 
located on the Mississippi State Department of Health’s website.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 34 HOUSEKEEPING AND PHYSICAL PLANT  
Rule 45.34.1 Housekeeping Facilities and Services. 
1. The physical plant shall be kept in good repair, neat, and attractive.  The safety and 
comfort of the resident shall be the first consideration. 
2. Janitor closets shall be provided with a mop-cleaning sink and be large enough in 
area to store house cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor closet 
area and equipment should be provided for the food service area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.35.2 Bathtubs, Showers, and Lavatories.  Bathtubs, showers, and lavatories shall be 
kept clean and in proper working order.  They shall not be used for laundering or 
for storage of soiled materials.  Neither shall these facilities be used for cleaning 
mops, brooms, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.35.3 Resident Bedrooms.  Resident bedrooms shall be cleaned and dusted as often as 
necessary to maintain a clean, attractive appearance.  All sweeping should be 
damp sweeping, all dusting should be damp dusting with a good detergent or 
germicide. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.35.4 Storage. 
<<<PAGE 693>>>
 
693 
  
1. Such items as beds, mattresses, mops, mop buckets, dust rags, etc. shall not be kept 
in hallways, corners, toilet or bathrooms, clothes closets, or resident bedrooms. 
2. The use of attics for storage of combustible materials is prohibited. 
3. If basements are used for storage, they shall meet acceptable standards for storage 
and for fire safety. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 36  LAUNDRY:  GENERAL 
Rule 45.36.1 Commercial Laundry.  Facilities may use commercial laundries or they may 
provide a laundry within the institution. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 37  PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
Rule 45.37.1 Location and Space Requirements.  Each facility shall have laundry facilities 
unless commercial laundries are used.  The laundry shall be located in a 
specifically designated area, and there shall be adequate room and space for 
sorting, processing, and storage of soiled material.  Laundry rooms or soiled linen 
storage areas shall not open directly into a resident bedroom or food service area.  
Soiled materials shall not be transported through the food service area.  If 
commercial laundry is used, separate satisfactory storage areas shall be provided 
for clean and soiled linens.  There shall be provided a clean linen storage area 
separate from the laundry area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.37.2 Ventilation.  Provisions shall be made for proper mechanical ventilation of the 
laundry.  Provisions shall be made to prevent the recirculation of air through the 
heating and air condition systems. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.37.3 Lint Traps.  Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for driers. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.37.4 Laundry Chutes.  When laundry chutes are provided they shall have a minimum 
diameter of two (2) feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and 
drain. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 694>>>
 
694 
  
Rule 45.37.5 Laundry Equipment.  Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately 
perform the laundry needs of the institution.  The equipment shall be installed to 
comply with all local and state codes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 38  PHYSICAL PLANT:  GENERAL  
Rule 45.38.1 Building Classification. 
1. To qualify for a license, the facility shall be planned to serve the type of patients to 
be admitted and shall comply with the following: 
a. All facilities constructed after the effective date of these regulations shall 
comply with the building requirements set forth in the regulations. 
b. After the effective date of these regulations, all additions to facilities shall 
comply with the building requirements for a license.  Approval shall not be 
granted for an addition to an existing building which will increase the bed 
capacity unless the existing structure is basically sound and is to be brought into 
a condition of acceptable conformity with the current regulations. 
c. Authority to Waiver.  The licensing agency may waive certain requirements in 
the regulations at its discretion for facilities licensed as a facility in a state-
owned and state-operated mental institution provided the health and safety of 
residents will not be endangered. 
2. Renovations within the exterior walls of a facility shall in no case be of such nature 
as to lower the character of the structure below the applicable building 
requirements for the type of license held by the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.2 Location.  All facilities established or constructed after the adoption of these 
regulations shall be located so that they are free from undue noise, smoke, dust, or 
foul odors and shall not be located adjacent to disposal plants, cemeteries, main 
line railroads, funeral home, airport, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.3 Site.  The proposed site for a facility must be approved by the licensing agency.  
Factors to be considered in approving a site in addition to the above may be 
convenience to medical and hospital services, approved water supply and 
sewerage disposal, public transportation, community services, services of an 
organized fire department, an availability to labor supply.  Not more than one-
third (1/3) of a site shall be covered by a building(s) except by special approval of 
the licensing agency.  One example whereby approval may be granted is where 
the structure is to be placed in a very desirable location where the grounds are 
<<<PAGE 695>>>
 
695 
  
limited and very expensive.  Where such approval is granted, the structure will be 
required to have a living room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas 
adequate to compensate for lack of required outside area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.4 Local Restrictions.  The site and structure of all facilities shall comply with local 
building, fire and zoning ordinances.  Evidence to this effect signed by local 
building, fire, and zoning officials shall be presented. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.5 Transportation.  Facilities shall be located on streets or roads which have all 
weather surface.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.6 Communication.  There shall be not less than one telephone in the home and 
such additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in event of fire or 
other emergency.  The telephone shall be listed under the official licensed name 
or title of the home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.7 Occupancy.  No part of the facility may be rented, leased, or used for any 
commercial purpose not related to the operation of the home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.38.8 Basement. 
1. The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or more of its clear 
height is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining the building on all 
sides. 
2. No resident shall be housed on any floor that is below ground level. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 39  SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS 
Rule 45.39.1 New Construction, Additions, and Renovations.  When construction is 
contemplated either for new buildings, conversions, additions, or alterations to 
existing buildings, one set of plans and specifications shall be submitted to the 
licensing agency for review and approval.  The submission shall be made in not 
less than two stages preliminary and final.  Floor plans shall be drawn to scale of 
<<<PAGE 696>>>
 
696 
  
one-eight (1/8) inch to equal one (1) foot or one-fourth (1/4) inch to equal one (1) 
foot. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.2 Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which 
do not affect the structural integrity of the building, change functional operation, 
affect fire safety, or add beds or facilities or those for which the facility is licensed 
do not need to have plans submitted for review provided that a detailed 
explanation of the proposed alteration or remodeling is submitted to and approved 
by the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.3 First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans.:  First stage or preliminary plans 
shall include: 
1. Plot plant showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed building and 
any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroads, etc., all 
properly designated; and size, characteristics, and location of all existing public 
utilities. 
2. Floor plan showing over-all dimensions of building(s); location, size, and purpose 
of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other openings with 
swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of all corridors and hallways; and 
location of stairs, elevators, dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
a. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
b. A scaled drawing of one-fourth (1/4) inch to one (1) foot shall be submitted for 
the following areas: Kitchen, dishwashing area, nurses' station and utility 
room(s). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.4 Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications.:  Final stage or 
working drawings and specifications shall include: 
1. Architectural drawings 
2. Structural drawings 
3. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
4. Electrical drawings 
5. Detailed specifications 
<<<PAGE 697>>>
 
697 
  
6. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual construction. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.5 Preparation of Plans and Specifications.  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.6 Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.7 Notification of Start of Construction.  The licensing agency shall be informed 
in writing at the time construction is begun. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.8 Inspections.  The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to the work for inspection whenever it is in preparation or 
progress, and the owner shall ascertain that proper facilities are made available for 
such access and inspection. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.9 Limit of Approval.  In construction delayed for a period of exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a new 
evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.39.10 Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal.  The water supply and sewerage 
disposal shall be approved by the local county health department and/or the 
Division of Sanitary Engineering, Mississippi State Department of Health.  No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall be 
installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended until 
complete plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have 
been so approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and final 
determination. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 698>>>
 
698 
  
Rule 45.39.11 Availability of Approved Plans:  Every licensed facility shall maintain, on the 
premises and available for inspection, a copy of current approved architectural 
plans and specifications. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 40   GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 45.40.1 Scope.  The provision of this section shall apply to all facilities except for those 
sections or paragraphs where a specific exception is granted for existing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.2 Structural Soundness and Repair; Fire Resistive Rating.  The building shall be 
structurally sound, free from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and 
painted at sufficient intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.3 Temperature.  Adequate heating and cooling shall be provided in all rooms used 
by residents so that a minimum temperature of seventy-five (75) to eighty (80) degrees 
Fahrenheit may be maintained. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.4 Lighting.  Each resident's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum of ten (10) foot-candles of 
lighting for general use in resident's room and a minimum of thirty (30) foot-
candles of lighting for reading purposes.  All entrances, corridors, stairways, 
ramps, cellars, attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and service units shall have 
sufficient artificial lighting to prevent accidents and promote efficiency of service.  
Night lights shall be provided in all corridors, stairways, toilets, and bathing 
rooms. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.5 Screens.  All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with 
tight fitting full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out 
and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.6 Floors.  All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks and be 
finished so that they can be easily cleaned.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 699>>>
 
699 
  
Rule 45.40.7 Walls and Ceilings.  All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction with an 
acceptable surface and shall be maintained in good repair.  Generally the walls 
and ceilings should be painted a light color. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.8 Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least eight (8) feet except 
that a height of seven (7) feet and six (6) inches may be approved for corridors or 
toilets and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed.  Exception may 
be made for existing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.9 Handrails.  Handrails shall be installed on both sides of all corridors and 
hallways used by residents.  The handrails should be installed from thirty-two 
(32) inches to thirty-six (36) inches above the floors.  The handrails should have a 
return to the wall at each rail ending.  Exception may be made for existing 
facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.10 Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of 
residents, shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in twelve (12) feet of run, shall be 
furnished with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both 
sides.  Exception may be granted for existing ramps and inclines on existing 
facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.11 Call System.  A call system shall be in place at the nurses' station to receive 
resident calls through a communication system to include audible and visual 
signals from bedrooms, toilets, and bathing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.40.12 Trash Chutes.  The installation and/or use of trash chutes is prohibited. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 41    FIRE SAFETY AND CONSTRUCTION 
Rule 45.41.1 Date of Construction and Life Safety Code Compliance. 
1. Buildings constructed after the effective date of these regulations shall comply with 
the edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) effective on the date of 
construction. 
 
<<<PAGE 700>>>
 
700 
  
2. Buildings constructed prior to the effective date of these regulations shall comply 
with Chapter 19 of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101), 2012 edition. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.41.2 Required Rooms and Areas. 
1. Resident bedroom.  (See Rule 45.20.2) 
2. Special care room.  (See Rule 45.20.3) 
3. Nurses' Station.  (See Rule 45.20.4) 
4. Utility room.  (See Rule 45.20.5) 
5. Toilet and bathing facilities.  (See Rule 40.20.6) 
6. Clean linen storage.  Adequate areas shall be provided for storing clean linens 
which shall be separate from dirty linen storage. 
7. Wheelchair area.  Adequate area shall be provided for storage of wheelchairs. 
8. Kitchen.  (See Rule 45.33.2-45.33.4) 
9. Dining room.  The dining area shall be large enough to seat three-fourth (3/4) of 
the maximum capacity of nursing home. The dining area can also be used for 
social, recreational, or religious activities.  It is recommended that a separate 
dining area be provided for personnel. 
10. Food storage.  A food storage room shall be provided convenient to the kitchen 
in all future licensed homes.  It should have cross ventilation.  All foods must be 
stored a minimum of twelve (12) inches above the floor. 
11. Day room or living room.  Adequate day or living room area shall be provided 
for residents or residents and guests.  These areas shall be designated exclusively 
for this purpose and shall not be used as sleeping area or otherwise.  It is 
recommended that at least two (2) such areas be provided and more in larger 
homes. 
12. Janitor closet.  At least one (1) janitor's closet shall be provided for each floor.  
The closet shall be equipped with a mop sink and be adequate in area to store 
cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor's closet shall be provided for 
the food service area. 
13. Garbage can cleaning and storage area. 
14. General storage.  A minimum area equal to at least five (5) square feet per bed 
shall be provided for general storage. 
<<<PAGE 701>>>
 
701 
  
15. Laundry.  If laundry is done in the institution, a laundry room shall be provided.  
Adequate equipment for the laundry load of the home shall be installed.  The 
sorting, washing, and extracting process should be separated from the folding and 
ironing area-preferably in separate rooms. 
16. Separate toilet room (lavatory and water closet) shall be provided for male and 
female employees. 
17. A separate toilet room with a door that can be locked shall be provided for the 
public. 
18. Food Service Supervisors Office. 
19. Social Services Office. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 42   ENFORCEMENT:  DEFINITIONS FOR LICENSURE-ONLY NURSING 
FACILITIES       
Rule 45.42.1 Substandard Quality of Care.  One or more deficiencies related to the 
regulatory requirements in Rule 45.1.3, 45.18.1 and Subchapter 22, which 
constitute either immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, or a pattern or 
widespread deficiencies at a Level 3 severity, or widespread deficiencies at a 
Level 2 severity. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.2 Substandard Facility.  A facility which is found to be in violation of any of the 
regulations in Rule 45.1.3, 45.18.1 and Subchapter 22, on the current licensure 
visit and has been found to be in violation of any of the afore cited regulations 
during the previous regular re-licensure visit, or any intervening revisit or 
complaint investigation.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.3 Ban on All Admissions.  A ban on all admissions to a facility may be imposed by 
the licensing agency when it has been determined by the licensing agency that the 
facility is providing substandard quality of care as defined in Rule 45.9.2 above.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.4 Division Director.  The Division Director is the Director of the Mississippi State 
Department of Health (otherwise known as the licensing agency), Division of 
Health Facilities Licensure and Certification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 702>>>
 
702 
  
Rule 45.42.5 Informal Dispute Resolution.  Procedures set forth in Rule 45.24.1 provide 
facilities with one opportunity to dispute findings of licensure violations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.6 Temporary Manager.  If a facility is designated as a substandard facility, the 
licensing agency may select a temporary manager in order to oversee correction 
of deficient practices cited as violations by the agency and assure the health and 
safety of the facility’s residents while corrections are being made.  A temporary 
manager may also be appointed to oversee the orderly closure of a facility.   No 
temporary manager shall be appointed pursuant to these regulations unless the 
licensing agency finds Widespread Level-3 Severity deficiency or deficiencies 
pursuant to Rule 45.9.11 and Rule 45.9.12 or   Isolated, Pattern, or Widespread 
Level-4 deficiency or deficiencies pursuant to Rule 45.9.10, Rule 45.9.11 and 
Rule 45.9.12.  Temporary management shall not be imposed unless other less 
intrusive remedies will not result in compliance, or have failed to cause the 
facility to achieve compliance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.7 State Monitor. In lieu of a temporary manager, the licensing agency may appoint 
a state monitor to oversee the correction of cited deficiencies in a facility as a 
safeguard against further harm to residents, or when the potential for harm exists 
as a result of cited licensure violations at any level of severity or scope. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.8 Directed Plan of Correction.  A Directed Plan of Correction is a plan which the 
licensing agency, or the temporary manager, develops to require a facility to take 
action within specified time frames. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.9 Substantial Compliance.  A level of compliance which does not entail the 
imposition of an enforcement remedy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.10 Pattern.  Pattern is the scope of licensure violations when more than a limited 
number of residents are affected, and/or more than a limited number of staff are 
involved, and/or the situation has occurred in several locations, and/or the same 
resident(s) have been affected by repeated occurrences of the same deficient 
practice.  The effect of the deficient practice is not found to be pervasive through 
the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 703>>>
 
703 
  
Rule 45.42.11 Widespread.  Widespread is the scope of licensure violations when the problems 
causing the violations are pervasive in the facility and/or represent systemic 
failure that affected or has the potential to affect a large portion or all of the 
facility’s residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.12 Severity.   
1. Level 1 - Potential for causing no more than a minor negative impact on the 
resident(s). 
2. Level 2 - Noncompliance that results in minimal physical, mental, and/or psycho-
social discomfort to the resident and/or has the potential (not yet realized) to 
compromise the resident’s ability to maintain and/or reach his/her highest 
practicable physical, mental and/or psycho-social well-being as defined by an 
accurate and comprehensive resident assessment, plan of care, and provision of 
services. 
3. Level 3 - Noncompliance that results in a negative outcome that has compromised 
the resident’s ability to maintain his/her highest practicable physical, mental and 
psycho-social well-being as defined by an accurate and comprehensive resident 
assessment, plan of care, and provision of services. 
4. Level 4 - Immediate jeopardy, a situation in which immediate corrective action is 
necessary because the facility’s noncompliance with one or more requirements of 
participation has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or 
death to a resident receiving care in a facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.13 Directed In-Service Training.  The purpose of directed in-service training is to 
provide basic knowledge to achieve compliance and remain in compliance with 
the requirements of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.42.14 Bureau Director.  The Bureau Director is the Director of the Mississippi State 
Department of Health (otherwise known as the licensing agency), Bureau of 
Health Facilities Licensure and Certification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 43 DEFINITIONS FOR LICENSED AND CERTIFIED NURSING 
FACILITIES 
Rule 45.43.1 General.  The Mississippi State Department of Health (otherwise known as the 
licensing agency), Bureau of Licensure and Certification is authorized to certify 
<<<PAGE 704>>>
 
704 
  
healthcare  facilities for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, 
pursuant to the Social Security Act at 42.U.S.C. Sections 1819(h)(2), 1819(g)(2), 
1919 (g)(2), 1919(h),  and 42 CFR. 488.415, 488.425, 488.310, 488.331, and 
488.417(a). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.43.2 Substandard Quality of Care.  One or more deficiencies related to participation 
requirements under 42 CFR 483.13, Resident Behavior and Facility Practices, 42 
CFR 483.15, Quality of Life, or 42 CFR 483.25, Quality of Care which, constitute 
either immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, or a pattern or widespread 
deficiencies at a Level 3 severity, or widespread deficiencies at Level 2 severity. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.43.3 Poor Performing Facility.  If a facility is found noncompliant with any 
deficiency with a scope and severity at the level of actual harm or higher on the 
current survey and the facility had a deficiency at the level of actual harm or 
higher on any intervening survey (i.e., any survey between the last standard 
survey and the current one), the facility will be considered a poor performing 
facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.43.4 Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A situation 
in which the facility’s failure to meet one or more requirements of participation in 
the Medicare/Medicaid program has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, 
harm, impairment, or death to a resident. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.43.5  Ban on all Admissions A ban on all admissions to a facility shall be imposed by 
the licensing agency when it has been determined by the licensing agency that the 
facility is not in compliance with a Level 2, widespread deficiency or Level 3, 
pattern or widespread deficiency, or any deficiency cited as a Level 4, immediate 
jeopardy.   These deficiencies must be determined as Substandard Quality of Care 
as defined under Rule 45.9.1 or Immediate Jeopardy as defined under Rule 
45.24.1.  The licensing agency will also recommend to the state Medicaid agency 
denial of payment for new admissions.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 44 INFORMAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
Rue 45.44.1 Informal Dispute Resolution.  Procedures set forth in Rule 45.24.1 provide 
facilities with one opportunity to dispute survey findings. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 705>>>
 
705 
  
Subchapter 45 TEMPORARY MANAGER 
Rule 45.45.1. Temporary Manager.  A temporary manager may be selected as a remedy when 
a facility has been determined as having immediate jeopardy or widespread actual 
harm that does not constitute immediate jeopardy in order to oversee the 
correction of deficient practices cited by the licensing agency and assure the 
health and safety of the facility’s residents while the corrections are being made.  
A temporary manager may also be imposed to oversee orderly closure of a 
facility. Temporary management shall not be imposed unless other less intrusive 
remedies will not result in compliance, or have failed to cause the facility to 
achieve compliance.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 46 STATE MONITORING 
Rule 45.46.1 State Monitoring.  A State Monitor oversees the correction of cited deficiencies 
in a facility as a safeguard against further harm to residents when harm or a 
situation with a potential for harm has occurred. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 47 DIRECTED PLAN OF CORRECTION  
Rule 45.47.1 A Directed Plan of Correction is a plan which the licensing agency, or the 
temporary manager, develops to require a facility to take action within specified 
time frames.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 48 SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE   
Rule 45.48.1 A level of compliance which does not entail the imposition of an enforcement 
remedy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 49 PATTERN   
Rule 45.49.1 Pattern is the scope of deficiencies when more than a limited number of residents 
are affected, and/or more than a limited number of staff are involved, and/or the 
situation has occurred in several locations, and/or the same resident(s) have been 
affected by repeated occurrences of the same deficient practice.  The effect of the 
deficient practice is not found to be pervasive through the facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 50 WIDESPREAD   
<<<PAGE 706>>>
 
706 
  
Rule 45.50.1 Widespread is the scope of deficiencies when the problems causing the 
deficiencies are pervasive in the facility and/or represent systemic failure that 
affected or has the potential to affect a large portion or all of the facility’s 
residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 51 SEVERITY   
1. Level 1 - Potential for causing no more than a minor negative impact on the 
resident(s). 
2. Level 2 - Noncompliance that results in minimal physical, mental, and/or psycho-
social discomfort to the resident and/or has the potential (not yet realized) to 
compromise the resident’s ability to maintain and/or reach his/her highest 
practicable physical, mental and/or psycho-social well-being as defined by an 
accurate and comprehensive resident assessment, plan of care, and provision of 
services. 
3. Level 3 - Noncompliance that results in a negative outcome that has compromised 
the resident’s ability to maintain his/her highest practicable physical, mental and 
psycho-social well-being as defined by an accurate and comprehensive resident 
assessment, plan of care, and provision of services. 
4. Level 4 - Immediate jeopardy, a situation in which immediate corrective action is 
necessary because the facility’s noncompliance with one or more requirements of 
participation has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or 
death to a resident receiving care in a facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.51.2 Directed In-Service Training.  The purpose of directed in-service training is to 
provide basic knowledge to achieve compliance and remain in compliance with 
requirements of federal guidelines and state regulations, when applicable. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.51.3 Bureau Director.  The Bureau Director is the Director of the Mississippi State 
Department of Health (otherwise known as the licensing agency), Bureau of 
Health Facilities Licensure and Certification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 52 BAN ON ADMISSIONS PROCEDURE  
Rule 45.52.1 Ban on Admissions.  If a facility is found to be providing substandard quality of 
care or immediate jeopardy exists at a facility, as applicable, written notice of the 
determination shall be provided by the licensing agency to the facility, along with 
<<<PAGE 707>>>
 
707 
  
the notification that a ban on all admissions is to be imposed five calendar (5) 
days after the receipt of the notice by the facility unless a hearing is requested 
within that five (5) calendar day period.  If a hearing is requested by the facility, 
the informal dispute resolution procedures established under Rule 45.24.1 shall be 
applied. 
1. If the licensing agency’s determination of noncompliance with Substandard Quality 
of Care or Immediate Jeopardy on the day of the licensure visit/ survey is 
confirmed, a ban on all admissions shall be imposed until the facility achieves 
compliance and such compliance is verified by the licensing agency.  The 
licensing agency will verify the facility’s corrective actions as soon as possible 
after the licensing agency receives an allegation of compliance from the facility 
but no later than fifteen (15) days after the receipt of said notice.  If the hearing 
determines that the facility was not providing   Substandard Quality of Care or 
that Immediate Jeopardy did not exist, as applicable, on the day of the 
licensure/survey visit, no ban on all admissions will be imposed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 53 STATE MONITORING  
Rule 45.53.1 State Monitoring.  Monitors are identified by the licensing agency as appropriate 
professionals to monitor cited deficiencies.  A monitor shall meet the guidelines 
regarding conflicts of interests as follows: 
1. The monitor does not currently work, or, within the past two (2) years, has worked 
as an employee, as employment agency staff at the facility, or as an officer, 
consultant, or agent for the facility to be monitored.   
2. The monitor has no financial interest or any ownership interest in the facility.   
3. The monitor has no immediate family member who has a relationship with the 
facility to be monitored. 
4. The monitor has no immediate family member who is a resident in the facility.  If a 
facility has not achieved substantial compliance within five (5) months of the 
annual licensure visit/standard survey date, the remedy of state monitoring will be 
imposed as determined by the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.53.2 Compensation and Per Diem Costs.  All compensation and per diem costs of the 
State Monitor shall be paid by the facility.  The licensing agency shall bill the 
facility for the costs of the State Monitor after termination of the monitoring 
services.  The costs of the State Monitor for any weekly forty (40) hour period 
(forty [40] hours per week) shall not exceed the maximum allowable 
owner/administrator salary of a like sized facility as described in the Mississippi 
State Medicaid Plan.  Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the bill, the facility 
<<<PAGE 708>>>
 
708 
  
shall pay the bill or request an informal dispute resolution procedure to contest the 
costs for which it was billed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.53.3 Recommendation.  If the facility has not achieved substantial compliance within 
six (6) months from the annual survey date, the licensing agency shall revoke the 
license of the facility and if applicable shall recommend to the State Medicaid 
Agency termination of participation in the Medicare/Medicaid programs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 54 DIRECTED IN-SERVICE TRAINING  
Rule 45.54.1 Directed In-Service Training.  If the remedy of Directed In-Service Training is 
imposed by the licensing agency for a facility to achieve substantial compliance, 
guidelines for accepting Plans of Correction to the Statement of Deficiencies shall 
be as follows: 
1. Corporate facilities and consultant firms may only use staff to conduct the directed 
in-service training when the staff person has not had a direct or indirect 
involvement in the deficient practice and does not conduct in-services on a routine 
basis. 
2. Corporate facilities and consultant firms may use staff/consultants from other 
nursing homes of the corporation if that person has not been directly involved in 
routine in-services of the facility in question.  Also, the staff/consultant is and has 
no history of involvement with a Substandard or Poor Performing Facility.   
3. If hospital-owned facilities use hospital staff to conduct the in-service, the staff 
must not have been involved in the routine in-services and/or care of the residents.   
4. All other facilities may use staff or consultants from other facilities if the other 
facility’s staff/consultant is not/has not been involved in a facility that is a 
Substandard Facility or Poor Performer.   
5. Nursing homes with individual private consultants may not use the contracted 
consultant when directed In-Service is imposed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 55 DIRECTED PLAN OF CORRECTION 
Rule 45.55.1 Directed Plan of Correction.  Directed Plan of Correction as defined under Rule 
45.14.1 may be imposed as follows: 
1. The facility will be provided one (1) opportunity to submit an acceptable Plan of 
Correction. If the licensing agency does not receive an acceptable plan of 
<<<PAGE 709>>>
 
709 
  
correction, the licensing agency may impose one or more of the following 
remedies: 
a. Directed Plan of Correction;  
b. Revocation of State License; and/or    
c. Recommend termination of participation in the Medicaid/Medicare programs if 
applicable. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 56 TEMPORARY MANAGEMENT  
Rule 45.56.1 Recommendation for Appointment of Temporary Management.  If the 
licensing agency recommends the appointment of a temporary manager, the 
recommendation shall specify the grounds upon which such recommendation is 
based, including an assessment of the capability of the facility’s current 
management to achieve and maintain compliance with all Licensure and/or 
Certification requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.2 Notice of Imposition of Temporary Management.  A temporary manager may 
be imposed fifteen (15) days after the facility receives notice of the 
recommendation from the licensing agency and two (2) days after a facility which 
is licensed and certified receives notice where a determination that immediate 
jeopardy exists has been made. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.3 Conditions of Temporary Management.  The facility’s management must agree 
to relinquish control to the temporary manager and to pay his/her salary before the 
temporary manager can be installed in the facility. 
1. The facility cannot retain final authority to approve changes of personnel or 
expenditures of facility funds and be considered to have relinquished control to 
the temporary manager.  
2. The temporary manager must be given access to all facility bank accounts. 
3. In certified facilities, where immediate jeopardy exists, if a facility refuses to 
relinquish control to the temporary manager, the facility will be terminated from 
participation in medicare/medicaid within twenty-three (23) calendar days of the 
last day of the survey visit if the immediate jeopardy is not removed.   
4. The temporary manager’s salary must be at least equivalent to the prevailing annual 
salary of nursing home administrators in the facility’s geographic area, plus the 
<<<PAGE 710>>>
 
710 
  
additional costs that would have reasonably been incurred by the provider if the 
temporary manager had been in an employment relationship (e.g., the cost of a 
benefits package, prorated for the amount of time that the temporary manager 
spends in the facility).  The licensing agency is responsible for determining what a 
facility’s geographic area is.   
5. All compensation and per diem costs of the temporary manager shall be paid by the 
facility.  The licensing agency shall bill the facility for the costs of the temporary 
manager after termination of temporary management.  The costs of the temporary 
manager for any thirty (30) day period shall not exceed the maximum allowable 
owner/administrator salary of a like size facility as described in the Mississippi 
State Medicaid State Plan.  Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the bill, the 
facility shall pay the bill or request an informal dispute resolution procedure to 
contest the costs for which it was billed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.4 Selection of Temporary Manager.  The licensing agency shall compile and 
maintain a list of individuals eligible to serve as temporary managers.  The 
temporary manager must possess a Mississippi nursing home administrator’s 
license.  A contractual agreement will be executed between the temporary 
manager and the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.5 Eligibility of Temporary Manager.  The following individuals are not eligible to 
serve as temporary managers: 
1. Any individual who has been found guilty of misconduct by any licensing board or 
professional society in any State; or   
a. Any individual who has, or whose immediate family members have, any 
financial interest in or pre-existing fiduciary duty to the facility to be managed.  
Indirect ownership interest, such as through a mutual fund, does not constitute 
financial interest for the purpose of this restriction; or 
b. Any individual who currently serves or, within the past two (2) years, has served 
as a  member of the staff of the facility or has a pre-existing fiduciary duty to 
the facility; or 
c. Any individual who does not possess sufficient training, expertise, and 
experience in the operation of a nursing facility as would be necessary to 
achieve the objectives of temporary management; or 
d. Any individual who at the time of the imposition of temporary management 
could stand to gain an unfair competitive advantage by being appointed as 
temporary manager of the facility. 
<<<PAGE 711>>>
 
711 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.6 Condition of Appointment.  As a condition of appointment, the  temporary 
manager must agree not to purchase, lease, or manage the facility for a period of 
two (2) years following the end of the temporary management period. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.7 No Limitation.  Nothing contained in these sections shall limit the right of any 
facility owner to sell, lease, mortgage, or close any facility in accordance with all 
applicable laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.8 Authority and Powers Of the Temporary Manager.   
1. A temporary manager has the authority to direct and oversee the correction of the 
deficiencies/licensure violations;  to oversee and direct the management, hiring, 
reassignment and/or discharge of any consultant or employee, including the 
administrator of the facility; to direct  the expenditure of or obligate facility funds 
in a reasonable and prudent manner; to oversee the continuation of the business 
and the care of the residents; to oversee and direct those acts necessary to 
accomplish the goals of the  licensure and/or certification requirements;  to alter 
facility procedures; and to direct and oversee regular accountings and the 
provision of periodic reports to the licensing agency. 
2. A temporary manager shall provide reports to the licensing agency by the fifteenth 
(15th) day of each month showing the facility’s compliance status.    
3. A temporary manager shall observe the confidentiality of the operating policies, 
procedures, employment practices, financial information, and all similar business 
information of the facility, except that the temporary manager shall make reports 
to the licensing agency as provided for in this section.    
4. The temporary manager shall be liable for gross, willful or wanton negligence, 
intentional acts or omissions, unexplained shortfalls in the facility’s funds, and 
breaches of fiduciary duty.  The temporary manager shall be bonded in an amount 
equal to the facility’s total revenues for the month preceding the appointment of 
the temporary manager. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.9 Authority of Temporary Manager.  The temporary manager shall not have the 
authority to do the following: 
1. To cause or direct the facility or its owner to incur debt or to enter into any contract 
with a duration beyond the term of the temporary management of the facility;   
<<<PAGE 712>>>
 
712 
  
2. To cause or direct the facility to encumber its assets or receivables, or the premises 
on which it is located, with any lien or other encumbrances;   
3. To cause or direct the sale of the facility, its assets, or the premises on which it is 
located;    
4. To cause or direct the facility to cancel or reduce its liability or casualty insurance 
coverage;   
5. To cause or direct the facility to default upon any valid obligations previously 
undertaken by the owners or operators of the facility, including but not limited to, 
leases, mortgages, and security interests; and   
6. To incur capital expenditures in excess of two-thousand dollars ($2,000.00) without 
the permission of the owner of the facility and the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.56.10 Duration of Temporary Manager.  Temporary management shall continue until 
a license is revoked and or the facility is terminated from participation in the 
Medicare or Medicaid programs, or the facility achieves substantial compliance 
and is capable of remaining in substantial compliance.  The licensing agency may 
replace any temporary manager whose performance, in the discretion of the 
licensing agency, is deemed unsatisfactory.  No formal procedure is required for 
such removal or replacement but written notice of any action shall be given to the 
facility, including the name of any replacement manager. 
1. A facility subject to temporary management may petition the licensing agency for 
replacement of a temporary whose performance it considers unsatisfactory.  The 
licensing agency shall respond to a petition for replacement within three (3) 
business days after receipt of said petition. 
2. Otherwise, the licensing agency shall not terminate temporary management until it 
has determined that the facility has the management capability to ensure 
continued compliance with all licensure and/or certification requirements or until 
the facilities license is revoked or the facility’s participation in the 
medicare/medicaid program is terminated.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 57  INFORMAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION  
Rule 45.57.1 Informal Dispute Resolution.   
1. The purpose of the informal dispute resolution (IDR) process is to comply with 42 
CFR 488.331 by giving licensed facilities an additional opportunity to refute cited 
deficiencies/licensure violations after any survey, or after notification of billing 
issues in situations involving state monitors or temporary managers.  The IDR is 
<<<PAGE 713>>>
 
713 
  
not intended to be an evidentiary hearing since licensed facilities are afforded 
such at the federal level.  Licensed facilities may not use the IDR to delay the 
formal imposition of remedies or to challenge any other aspect of the survey 
process, including: 
a. The scope and severity assessments of deficiencies with the exception of 
scope and severity assessments that constitute substandard quality of care or 
immediate jeopardy; 
b. Remedies imposed by the licensing agency; 
c. Alleged failure of the survey team to comply with a requirement of the survey 
process; 
d. Alleged inconsistency of the survey team in citing deficiencies among 
facilities; and 
e. Alleged inadequacy or inaccuracy of the informal dispute resolution process. 
2. All requests for an IDR must follow the procedures set forth herein.  
3. All official statements of deficiencies/licensure violations requiring a response 
from the licensed facility, and billing statements for state monitors or temporary 
managers, shall be mailed by the licensing agency via certified mail, return receipt 
requested.  Each official statement of deficiencies/licensure violations shall be 
accompanied by a copy of these Informal Dispute Resolution Procedure 
Regulations. 
4. The licensed facility shall notify the Division Director that it requests an IDR.  The 
request shall be in writing and must be received in the office of the licensing 
agency no later than ten (10) calendar days after the licensed facility’s receipt of 
the official statement of deficiencies/licensure violations or billing statement.  The 
request shall specify which deficiencies/licensure violations or charges are 
disputed.  The request shall also specify whether the licensed facility requests that 
the IDR be (1) in person; (2) via a telephone conference or by other electronic 
means (i.e., via video teleconference, if such service is available to all parties); or 
(3) by means of a written response to the official statements of 
deficiencies/licensure violations.  The request must also designate a licensed 
facility representative for purposes of further communications regarding the IDR. 
5. Every IDR shall be conducted by the licensing agency.  If the IDR will be 
conducted in person, it shall be conducted at offices designated by the licensing 
agency.  
6. The licensing agency shall notify the licensed facility representative by telephone 
or facsimile of the date, time, location, and format of the IDR.  The IDR shall be 
held within ten (10) working days after the receipt by the licensing agency of the 
request.  The IDR shall be conducted by a three (3) person panel, known as the 
<<<PAGE 714>>>
 
714 
  
IDR Panel, consisting of a provider representative of the long term care 
community, a member of the medical community (physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant), and a member of the Licensure staff who is 
SMQT qualified and who does not survey nor have supervisory capacity over the 
district of the related survey. In the event of a position vacancy, an alternate 
member may serve on the IDR panel as directed by the State Health Officer. 
7. At the IDR, the licensed facility representative shall present any additional 
documentation or statements in support of its contention that a cited 
deficiency/licensure violation or billing charge may be incorrect.  Additional 
employees of the licensed facility may participate in the IDR, including 
consultants utilized by the licensed facility as may be required by the regulations 
(i.e., dietary consultant, social work consultant, and others).  Because the IDR is 
intended to be informal (1) IDR participants should be able to speak freely 
concerning deficiencies/licensure violations; (2) cross-examination of the IDR 
participants is not allowed, and (3) legal counsel for the licensed facility is not 
allowed to participate in the IDR. 
8. The Bureau Director shall designate staff members from the survey/licensure visit 
team which performed the survey/licensure visit in question to attend the IDR and 
present any additional documentation or statements in support of the cited 
deficiency/licensure violation.  In the case of billing disputes, the staff members 
who prepared the bill will present the any additional documentation or statements 
in support of the charges.  Any other staff members as required and designated by 
the Bureau Director may attend the IDR. 
9. At the conclusion of the IDR, a written report shall be prepared and forwarded to 
the Bureau Director, indicating the final determination regarding the validity of 
any disputed deficiencies/licensure violations.  The decision of the IDR Panel 
regarding the disputed deficiencies/licensure violations shall be mailed, via 
certified mail, to the licensed facility representative within ten (10) calendar days 
of the conclusion of the IDR.  Facilities which are licensed but not certified may 
appeal the decision of the IDR Panel regarding the disputed licensure violations if 
the violations are at a scope and severity level of G or above and enforcement 
remedies have been imposed by the licensing agency.  The decision of the ICR 
Panel regarding the disputed deficiencies/licensure violations may be appealed 
pursuant to the administrative procedures outlined in Rule 45.10.1 of these 
regulations. 
10. If the IDR Panel determines that a deficiency/licensure violation should not have 
been cited, the following steps shall be taken: 
a. The official statement of deficiencies/licensure violations shall be marked 
“deleted,” signed, and dated by the branch manager for the district where the 
facility is located.  
<<<PAGE 715>>>
 
715 
  
b. A revised copy of the official survey/licensure violation form shall be issued 
to the licensed facility which shows the adjusted scope and severity 
assessment to reflect the outcome of the IDR.  
c. Any enforcement action imposed solely on an incorrect deficiency/licensure 
violation citation shall be rescinded.  
11. If the IDR Panel determines that any charges for state monitoring or temporary 
management are inaccurate or disallowed, a revised copy of the bill will be issued 
to the licensed facility.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.57.2 Effect of Informal Dispute Resolution Procedures on Corrective Plans and 
Enforcement Actions.  A request for an IDR does not stay the obligation of the 
licensed facility to submit an acceptable Plan of Correction to the licensing 
agency within ten (10) calendar days of the licensed facility’s receipt of the 
official statement of deficiencies.  The licensing agency’s failure to complete the 
IDR timely will not delay the effective date of any enforcement action against a 
licensed facility.  A licensed facility may not seek a delay of any enforcement 
action against it on the grounds that an IDR has not been completed before the 
effective date of the enforcement.  A licensed facility may not use this procedure 
to challenge any other aspect of the survey/licensure process, including but not 
limited to:  
1. Classification of deficiencies (i.e., scope and severity of harm assessments); 
2. Remedy imposed or recommended by the licensing agency; 
3. Failure of the survey/licensure  team to comply with the survey/licensure  process; 
4. Inconsistency of the survey/licensure  team in citing deficiencies/licensure 
violations among facilities; or 
5. Inadequacy or inaccuracy of the informal dispute resolution process. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 45.57.3 Post Informal Dispute Resolution Survey Procedures.  If a follow up 
survey/licensure visit is conducted regarding deficiencies/licensure violations 
which have been the subject of an informal dispute resolution procedure, and the 
follow-up survey/licensure visit indicates that the facility has not corrected the 
deficiencies/licensure violation which was the subject of the informal dispute 
resolution procedure, the facility shall not be entitled to another informal dispute 
resolution procedure hearing.  However, if a follow-up survey is conducted and 
deficiencies are discovered which were not cited on the original official statement 
of deficiencies/licensure violations the facility is entitled to utilize the informal 
dispute resolution procedure with regard to any previously uncited deficiencies. 
<<<PAGE 716>>>
 
716 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13   
 
Subchapter 58 INFECTION CONTROL 
 
  Rule 45.58.1 The following infection control standards shall be met: 
 
1.  The facility must maintain and document an effective infection control program 
that protects patients, families, visitors, and facility personnel by preventing and 
controlling infections and communicable diseases. 
 
2. The facility must have an active surveillance program that includes specific 
measures for prevention, early detection, control, education, and investigation of 
infections and communicable diseases in the facility. There must be a mechanism 
to evaluate the effectiveness of the program(s) and take corrective action when 
necessary. The program must include implementation of nationally recognized 
systems of infection control guidelines to avoid sources and transmission of 
infections and communicable diseases 
 
3. The facility must follow accepted standards of practice to prevent the transmission 
of infections and communicable diseases, including the use of standard precautions. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
CHAPTER 46 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR HOME HEALTH 
AGENCIES 
Subchapter 1   GENERAL  
Rule 46.1.1 HOME HEALTH AGENCIES.  The following minimum standards of operation 
for home health agencies have been promulgated pursuant to Mississippi Code 
Annotated §41-71-1 through §41-71-19 (Supplement 1986), and are to be 
followed by persons operating a home health agency.  They are minimum 
requirements that home health agencies will adopt new and improved methods 
and practices as they develop without waiting for improvements in the Standards.  
Regulatory in nature by necessity, they are designed to be educational in character 
and are intended to be reasonable and practicable.  Laws and Standards are 
limited in what they can do in meeting the manifold health needs of individuals.  
Each home health agency bears a strong moral responsibility for providing the 
best possible care for the patients it serves. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 2   LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 46.2.1 Adoption of Minimum Standards of Operation.  By virtue of authority vested 
in it by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi as per House bill #427 enacted 
<<<PAGE 717>>>
 
717 
  
by the Regular 1981 Session of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, as 
amended in 1986, the Mississippi Department of Health does hereby adopt and 
promulgate the following Minimum Standards of Operation for Home Health 
Agencies. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.2.2 Effective date of Minimum Standards of Operation for Home Health 
Agencies.  The Mississippi Department of Health does hereby adopt these 
Minimum Standards of Operation for Home Health Services.  These Minimum 
Standards of Operation are effective as of September 21, 1981.  Any home health 
agency which is in operation on July 1, 1981, shall be given a reasonable time 
under the particular circumstances, not to exceed one (1) year from July 1, 1981, 
within which to comply with the provisions of the Mississippi Department of 
Health Act of 1979, as amended, and these Minimum Standards of Operation for 
Mississippi Home Health Agencies. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 3   DEFINITIONS.  As used in these minimum standards, the words and terms 
hereinafter set forth, shall be defined as follows: 
Rule 46.3.1 Administrator shall mean an individual who is delegated the responsibility for 
the interpretation, implementation, and proper application of policies and 
programs established by the governing authority and is delegated responsibility 
for the establishment of safe and effective administrative management, control, 
and operation of the services provided.  This individual shall be one of the 
following: 
1. An individual with a baccalaureate degree and at least one year of administrative 
experience in home health care or in a related health provider program, occurring 
within the last three (3) years; 
2. An incumbent administrator as of July 1, 1981; 
3. An individual with a minimum of three (3) years of administrative experience in a 
health related field, one year of which shall be full-time in a home health setting, 
occurring within the last three (3) years. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.2 Audiologist shall mean an individual who meets the educational and experience 
requirements for a Certificate of Clinical Competence granted by the American 
Speech and Hearing Association and is currently licensed as an audiologist in the 
State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
<<<PAGE 718>>>
 
718 
  
Rule 46.3.3 Branch Office shall mean a location or site from which a home health agency 
provides services within a portion of the total geographic area served by the 
parent agency.  The branch office is part of the home health agency and is located 
sufficiently close  to share administration, supervision and services in a manner 
that renders it unnecessary to obtain a separate license as a home health agency.  
A branch office shall be staffed with at least one (1) registered nurse on a full-
time basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.4 Care Team shall mean a group of individuals responsible for the development of 
each patient's care plan. The care team shall consist of, but not be limited to, the 
physician, podiatrist, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, clinical nurse 
specialists, and pertinent members of the agency staff, the patient and member of 
his/her family. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.5 Certified Respiratory Therapy Technician shall mean an individual who has 
passed the National Board of Respiratory Therapy certification examination and 
renders services under consultation from a registered respiratory therapist. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.6 Change of Ownership means but is not limited to, intervivos gifts, purchases 
transfers, leases, cash and/or stock transactions or other comparable arrangements 
whenever the person or entity acquires a majority interest (fifty percent (50%) or 
more) of the facility or service.  Changes of ownership from partnerships, single 
proprietorships or corporations to another form of ownership are specifically 
included.  Provided, however, "Change of Ownership" shall not include any 
inherited interest acquired as a result of a testamentary instrument or under the 
laws of descent and distribution of the State of Mississippi.  The change of IRS 
exemption status also constitutes a change of ownership. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.7 Clinical Note shall mean a written notation, dated and signed by the appropriate 
member of the health team, of a contact with a patient, containing a description of 
signs and symptoms, treatment and/or drugs given, the patient's reaction and any 
changes in physical or emotional condition.  Clinical notes are written on the day 
service is rendered and incorporated into the patient's clinical records at least 
weekly. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.8 Clinical Record shall mean a legal document containing all pertinent information 
relating to the care of an individual patient. 
<<<PAGE 719>>>
 
719 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.9 Consumer shall mean a person who is neither an owner nor employee of the 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.10 Coordinated when used in conjunction with the phrase, Home Health Services, 
shall mean the integration of the multidisciplinary services provided by patient 
care team members directed toward meeting the home health needs of the patient. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.11 REPEALED Effective 07/01/2022 
Rule 46.3.12 Director of Nursing shall mean the individual responsible for the coordination of 
all patient services rendered by parent, sub-unit and branches as applicable.  
He/she shall be currently licensed in Mississippi with: 
1. A baccalaureate degree in nursing and two (2) years of registered nursing 
experience, or 
2. A graduate of a diploma school of nursing with two (2) years of registered nursing 
experience, or 
3. An associate degree of nursing with four (4) years of registered nursing 
experience, or 
4. An incumbent Director of Nursing as of July 1, 1981. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.13 Directly shall mean providing home health services through salaried employees 
of the home health agency or through personnel under hourly or per visit contracts 
or the equivalent.  Where an hourly or per visit contract is made, Subchapter 28 
must be followed to ensure adequate control and supervision by the home health 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.14 Direct Supervision shall mean that a registered nurse or appropriate health 
professional is physically present in the immediate area where the patient is being 
provided services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.15 Discharge Summary shall mean the written report of condition of patient, 
services rendered, pertinent goals achieved during the entire service provided and 
final disposition at the time of discharge from the service.  
<<<PAGE 720>>>
 
720 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.16 Geographic Area shall mean the land area, for which the agency shall be 
licensed. The geographic area shall be expressed in Mississippi counties. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.17 Governmental Agency for licensure purposes shall mean an agency operated by 
a federal, state or local government and is not connected to a hospital. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.18 Governing Authority means the organization, person or persons designated to 
assume full legal and financial responsibility for the policy determination, 
management, operation, and financial viability of the home health agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.19 Governing Body Bylaws shall mean a set of rules adopted by the governing body 
of the home health agency for governing the agency's operation. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.20 Home Health Agency shall mean a public or privately owned agency or 
organization or a subdivision of such an agency or organization, properly 
authorized to conduct business in Mississippi, which is primarily engaged in 
providing to individuals, at the written direction of a licensed physician, 
podiatrist, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical nurse specialists in 
the individual's place of resident, skilled nursing services provided by or under the 
supervision of a registered nurse licensed to practice in Mississippi and one or 
more of the following part-time intermittent services or items: 
1. Physical, occupational, or speech therapy; 
2. Medical Social Services; 
3. Home Health aide services; 
4. Other services as approved by the licensing agency; 
5. Medical supplies, other than drugs and biologicals, and the use of medical 
appliances; 
6. Medical services provided by a resident in training at a hospital under a teaching 
program of such hospital. 
7. Drugs and Biologicals as allowed by Mississippi Board of Pharmacy permit for 
home health. (Refer to Home Health and Hospice Permits - MS Board of 
Pharmacy.) 
<<<PAGE 721>>>
 
721 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.21 Home Health Aide shall mean a non-professional individual who has completed 
a home health aide training program meeting requirements as specified in 
Subchapter 29.  The home health aide provides personal care services for a person 
in the home, under the supervision of a registered nurse or therapist of the agency.  
The care must relate to the type of supervision. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.22 Hospital Based Agency.  To be classified as a hospital based agency, the agency 
must be a clearly definable separate department of a hospital. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.23 License of Home Health Agency shall mean the document issued by the 
Mississippi Department of Health and signed by the Executive Director of the 
Mississippi Department of Health and the Chief of the Division of Licensure and 
Certification.  Licensure shall constitute authority to perform the services 
included within the scope of these minimum standards of operation. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.24 Licensed Practical Nurse shall mean an individual who is currently licensed as 
such in the State of Mississippi and is a graduate of an approved school of 
practical nursing, performing selected acts, as defined in the Mississippi Nurse 
Practice Act under the supervision of a registered nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.25 Licensee shall mean the defined persons to whom the license is issued and upon 
whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the agency in compliance with 
these minimum standards of operation. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.26 Licensing Agency shall mean the Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.27 May shall mean permission. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.28 Medical Equipment and Supplies shall mean items which, due to their 
therapeutic or diagnostic characteristics, are essential in enabling a home health 
agency to carry out patient care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
<<<PAGE 722>>>
 
722 
  
Rule 46.3.29 Medical Social Worker shall mean a person who has a master's degree or 
bachelor's degree from a school of social work accredited by the Council on 
Social Work Education or Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and is 
licensed by the State of Mississippi as such and who has one year of social work 
experience in a health care setting. 
Nurse Practitioner shall mean an individual who is currently licensed as an 
Advanced Practice Registered Nurse in the State of Mississippi and is 
performing nurse practitioner duties in accordance with the Mississippi Nursing 
Practice Act. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.30 Occupational Therapist shall mean a person who is currently licensed as such by 
the State of Mississippi and is performing therapy duties in accordance with the 
Mississippi Occupational Therapy Practice Act. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.31 Occupational Therapy Assistant shall mean a person who is currently licensed 
as such by the State of Mississippi and is performing therapy duties in accordance 
with the Mississippi Occupational Therapy Practice Act. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.32 Owner shall mean a person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the interest in 
the agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.33 Parent Home Health Agency shall mean the agency that develops and maintains 
administrative control of sub-units and/or branches. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.34 Part-time or Intermittent Care shall mean home health services given to a 
patient at least once every sixty (60) days or as frequently as a few hours a day, 
several times a week.  This does not mean eight (8) hour shifts in the home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.35 Patient shall mean any individual whose condition is of such severity that the 
individual should be confined to his/her place of residence because of acute or 
chronic illness or injury or individuals with disabilities, convalescent or infirm, or 
who is in need of rehabilitative, obstetrical, surgical, medical, nursing, or 
supervisory care in their place of residence and under the care of a physician, 
podiatrist, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical nurse specialists. 
<<<PAGE 723>>>
 
723 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.36 Patient Care Plan shall mean a written coordinated plan of rendering care to the 
patient prepared by the combined as appropriate with each discipline providing 
service and the patient and/or family. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.37 Patient's Residence shall mean the place where the patient makes his home, such 
as his own apartment or house, a relative's home but shall not include a hospital, 
nursing home or other extended care facility with the exception of services 
provided through outpatient therapy in a nursing home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.38 Person shall mean an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, 
association, or joint stock association, or any licensee herein or the legal successor 
thereof. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.39 Physical Therapist shall mean an individual who is currently licensed to practice 
physical therapy in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.40 Physical Therapist Assistant shall mean an individual who is currently licensed 
to practice as such in the State of Mississippi under the supervision of a Licensed 
Physical Therapist. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.41 Physician shall mean an individual currently licensed by the proper authority in 
his state to practice medicine or osteopathy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.42 Podiatrist shall mean an individual currently licensed by the proper authority in 
the state of Mississippi to practice podiatry.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.43 REPEALED. Effective 07/01/2022 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.44 Plan of Treatment shall mean the written instructions, signed and reviewed at 
least every 60 days or more often if the patient's condition so warrants, by the 
<<<PAGE 724>>>
 
724 
  
physician, podiatrist, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and clinical nurse 
specialists for the provision of services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.45 Private Non-Profit Agency means agency that is exempt from federal income 
taxation under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.46 REPEALED. Effective 07/01/2022 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.47 Progress Note shall mean a written, signed and dated notation by the profession 
providing care, summarizing the information about the care provided by all the 
disciplines and the patient's response to the care during a given period of time. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.48 REPEALED. Effective 07/01/2022 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.49 Proprietary Agency shall mean a private organization not exempt from federal 
ncome taxation under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.50 Registered Dietitian shall mean a person who has successfully completed the 
national examination for dietitians and maintains their registration by meeting 
continuing education requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.51 Registered Nurse shall mean an individual who is currently licensed as such in 
the State of Mississippi and is performing nursing duties in accordance with the 
Mississippi Nurse Practice Act. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.52 Registered Respiratory Therapist shall mean an individual who has passed the 
National Board of Respiratory Therapy Examination. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.53 Shall shall mean mandatory requirement(s). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
<<<PAGE 725>>>
 
725 
  
Rule 46.3.54 Should shall mean recommendation(s). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.55 Skilled Nursing Services shall mean patient care services pertaining to the 
curative, restorative, and preventive aspects of nursing performed by or under the 
supervision of a registered nurse pursuant to the plan of treatment established in 
consultation with appropriate members of the care team.  Skilled nursing service 
is nursing care emphasizing a high level of nursing direction, observation and 
skill. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.56 Speech Pathologist shall mean an individual who meets the educational and 
experience requirements for a Certificate of Clinical Competence granted by the 
American Speech and Hearing Association or is fulfilling the Supervised 
Professional Employment requirements for a Certificate of Clinical Competence 
as dictated by the American Speech and Hearing Association and is currently 
licensed as such by the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.57 Subdivision shall mean a component of a multi-functional health facility, such as 
the home health department of a hospital or a health department, which 
independently meets the licensure standards for home health agencies. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.58 Sub-Unit shall mean a component of a multi-functional health facility, such as 
the home health department of a hospital or a health department, which 
independently meets the licensure standards for home health agencies. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.59 Supervising Nurse shall mean a registered nurse currently licensed in 
Mississippi, with: 
1. A baccalaureate degree in nursing and one (1) year of registered nursing 
experience, or 
2. A graduate of a diploma school of nursing with one (1) year of registered nursing 
experience, or 
3. An associate degree of nursing with three (3) years of registered nursing 
experience, or 
4. An incumbent supervising nurse as of July 1, 1981. 
<<<PAGE 726>>>
 
726 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.60 Supervision shall mean authoritative procedural guidance by a qualified person of 
the appropriate discipline on a timely basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.61 Utilization Review shall mean systematic evaluation of clinical records to 
determine the appropriateness and timeliness of services rendered as they relate to 
the plan of treatment and the person's needs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.62 Under Arrangement shall mean the procedure enabling public and nonprofit 
home health agencies to provide services through contractual arrangements with 
other agencies or organizations, including proprietary agencies or organizations.  
(Part V, Section H). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.3.63 Under Contract shall mean the provision of services through a written contract 
with an individual. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 4   PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT 
Rule 46.4.1 Authority.  The Mississippi Department of Health shall have the power to adopt, 
amend, promulgate and enforce such minimum standards of operation as it deems 
appropriate, within the law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.4.2 Amendments.  The minimum standards of operation for home health agencies 
may be amended by the licensing agency from time to time as necessary to 
promote the health, safety, and welfare of persons receiving services in 
compliance with the Administrative Procedures Act of the State. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 5   INSPECTION 
Rule 46.5.1 Inspections Required.  Each home health agency shall be inspected by the State 
Department of Health delegated with authority by said Department of Health at 
such intervals as the Department of Health may direct.  New agencies shall not be 
licensed without first having been inspected for compliance with these minimum 
standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
<<<PAGE 727>>>
 
727 
  
Subchapter 6   CLASSIFICATION OF HOME HEALTH AGENCIES 
Rule 46.6.1 General. For the purposes of these minimum standards of operation, home health 
agencies shall be classified as: 
1. Private non-profit agency 
2. Proprietary agency 
3. Hospital based agency 
4. Governmental agency 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13: 
Subchapter 7   THE LICENSE 
Rule 46.7.1 Regular License.  A regular license shall be issued to each home health agency 
that meets the requirements as set forth in these minimum standards.  The license 
shall show the classification of the agency (private non-profit, proprietary, 
hospital based or governmental agency). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.7.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the Mississippi Department of Health 
may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of non-compliance 
with these minimum standards exists in one particular. A provisional license shall 
be issued only if the Department of Health is satisfied that preparations are being 
made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and safety of patients will 
not be endangered meanwhile.  A provisional license may be reissued only if it is 
satisfactorily proven to the Department of Health that efforts are been made to 
fully comply with these minimum standards by a specified time. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 8   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 
Rule 46.8.1 Application.  Application for a license or renewal of license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency on forms provided by the Department of Health 
which shall contain such information as the Department of Health may require.  
The application shall require reasonable affirmative evidence of ability to comply 
with these minimum standards.  Each application for licensure and relicensure 
shall contain but not be limited to the following: 
1. Complete ownership information 
2. Geographic area to which services are provided. 
3. Services to be provided directly or through arrangement 
<<<PAGE 728>>>
 
728 
  
4. Information on numbers and types of personnel employed 
5. Utilization statistics (renewal applications only) 
6. Name of licensee 
7. Evidence of Certificate of Need 
8. Location of branch offices and/or sub-units 
9. Location and name of parent agency (if a sub-unit) 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.8.2 Fee.  Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health either by business check, money order or 
electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 9   THE LICENSEE 
Rule 46.9.1 Responsibility.  The Licensee shall be the individual, firm, partnership, 
corporation, company, association, or joint stock association responsible for the 
operation of the home health agency.  The licensee shall designate, in writing, one 
(1) individual as the responsible party for the conducting of the business of the 
home health agency in accordance with these Minimum Standards of Operation 
and for the conducting of the business of the home health agency with the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.9.2 Name of Institution.  Every Home Health agency shall be designated by a 
permanent and distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and 
shall not be changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and 
receiving written approval of the change from the licensing agency.  Such notice 
shall specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed.  
Only the official name by which the agency is licensed shall be used in telephone 
listing, on stationery, in advertising, etc.  Two or more agencies shall not be 
licensed under similar names. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 10 LICENSURE 
<<<PAGE 729>>>
 
729 
  
Rule 46.10.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the Department of Health shall set 
forth the name of the agency, the location, the name of the licensee, the 
classification of the agency, the geographic area served, the license number, 
services provided, and the name of the responsible party. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.2 Geographic Area.  The service area of each home health agency shall consist of 
the counties listed on the agency's license.  Should a home health agency desire to 
render services outside this service area, a Certificate of Need shall be obtained 
and a sub-unit established.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.3 Separate License.  Separate licenses shall be required for each agency and each 
sub-unit.  However, separate licenses are not required for branch offices.  Sub-
units shall not operate branch offices. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.4 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by any and all interested 
individuals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.5 License Not Transferable.  The license for a home health agency is not 
transferable or assignable to any other person except by written approval of the 
licensing agency and shall be issued only for the person and location named in the 
application.  The license shall be surrendered to the Department of Health on 
change of ownership, name or location of the agency or in the event that the 
agency ceases to be operated as a home health agency.  In event of a change of 
ownership, name or location of the agency, or change in services, a new 
application shall be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of the 
change. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.6 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on June 30 following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.10.7 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable annually upon: 
1. Filing of an application for renewal by the licensee. 
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee as mandated in Section B. 
<<<PAGE 730>>>
 
730 
  
3. Approval of an annual report by the licensing agency. 
4. Maintenance by the agency of minimum standards in its staff, services, and 
operation as set forth in these minimum standards. 
5. Evidence of Certificate of Need, when applicable. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 11 RECORDS AND REPORTS 
Rule 46.11.1 General.  Each home health agency shall submit such records and reports as the 
Department of Health may request. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.11.2 Daily Patient Census.  Each agency shall maintain on a daily basis a current 
patient census log that accurately reflects admissions and discharges. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.11.3 Annual Report.  Prior to relicensure, each agency shall submit to the licensing 
agency an annual report for the previous calendar year period, which shall include 
statistics as the Department of Health may direct. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 12 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 46.12.1 Denial or Revocation of License.  Hearings and Review.  The licensing agency 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee is authorized 
to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that there has 
been a failure to comply with the requirements established under the law and 
these minimum standards.  Also, the following may be grounds for denial or 
revocation of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license. 
2. Violations by the licensee of the minimum standards established by the Department 
of Health. 
3. Publicly misrepresenting the agency and/or its services. 
4. Conduct or practices detrimental to the Health or safety of patients and employees 
of said agency provided that this provision shall not be construed to have any 
reference to healing practices authorized by law.  Detrimental practices include 
but are not necessarily limited to: 
<<<PAGE 731>>>
 
731 
  
a. Cruelty to patients or indifference to their needs which are essential to their 
general well-being and health. 
b. Misappropriations of the money or property of a patient. 
c. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of any patient. 
d. Failure to call a physician or podiatrist when required by patient's condition. 
5. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Mississippi Commission Act of 
1979, amended. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 13 PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL 
Rule 46.13.1 Administrative Decision.  The Mississippi Department of Health will provide an 
opportunity for a hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with 
administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license.  The 
licensing agency, after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or 
licensee, is authorized to deny, suspend or revoke a license in any case in which it 
finds that the applicant or licensee has failed to comply with the requirements 
established by this act or the rules, regulations or standards promulgated in 
furtherance of this act.  Such notice shall be given by registered mail, or by 
personal service, setting forth the particular reasons for the proposed action and 
fixing a date of not less than thirty (30) days from the date of such mailing or such 
personal service, at which times the applicant or licensee shall be given an 
opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing.  On the basis of any such hearing, or 
upon default of the applicant or licensee, the licensing agency shall make a 
determination specifying its findings of fact and conclusions of law.  A copy of 
such determination shall be sent by registered mail or served personally upon the 
applicant or licensee.  The decision revoking, suspending or denying the license 
or application shall be come final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served, 
unless the applicant or licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the 
decision to the chancery court pursuant to Section 6 of House Bill #427 of the 
1981 Legislative Session.  The procedure governing hearings shall be in 
accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.13.2 Penalties.  Any person or persons or other entity or entities establishing, 
managing or operating a home health agency or conducting the business of a 
home health agency without the required license, or which otherwise violates any 
of the provisions of this act or the rules, regulations or standards promulgated and 
established in furtherance of this act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon 
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for 
each offense.  Each day of a continuing violation shall be considered a separate 
<<<PAGE 732>>>
 
732 
  
offense.  The licensing agency may seek injunctive relief in the event it deems 
such action necessary after consulting with the State Attorney General. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 14 TERMINATION OF OPERATION 
Rule 46.14.1 General.  In the event that Home Health Agency ceases operation, voluntarily or 
otherwise, the agency shall: 
1. Inform the attending physician or podiatrist, patient, and persons responsible for the 
patient's care in ample time to provide for alternate methods of care. 
2. Provide the receiving facility or agency with a complete copy of the clinical record. 
3. Inform the community through public announcement of the termination. 
4. Ensure the safekeeping, confidentiality, and storage of all clinical records for a 
period of seven (7) years, following discharge. 
5. Return the license to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 15 PHYSICAL FACILITIES:  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES. 
Rule 46.15.1 Physical Facilities.  Each Home Health office shall be commensurate in size for 
the volume of staff, patients, and services provided.  Offices shall be well lighted, 
heated, and cooled.  Offices should be accessible to individuals with disabilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.15.2 Administrative Offices.  Each Home Health Agency shall provide adequate 
office space and equipment for all administrative and health care staff.  An 
adequate number of desks, chairs, filing cabinets, telephones, tables, etc., shall be 
available. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 16 STORAGE FACILITIES. 
Rule 46.16.1 Storage.  Each Home Health Agency shall provide sufficient areas for the storage 
of: 
1.  Administrative records and supplies 
2.  Clinical Records 
3.  Medical equipment and supplies. 
<<<PAGE 733>>>
 
733 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 17 TOILET FACILITIES. 
Rule 46.17.1 Toilet Rooms.  Each Home Health office shall be equipped with an adequate 
number of toilet rooms.  Each toilet room shall include:  lavatories, soap, towels, 
and water closets. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 18 COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. 
Rule 46.18.1 Communication.  Each Home Health Agency shall have an adequate number of 
telephones and extensions, located so as to be quickly accessible from all parts of 
the building.  The telephone shall be listed under the official licensed name of the 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 19 REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE 
Rule 46.19.1 Infectious medical wastes includes solid or liquid wastes which may contain 
pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity such that exposure to the waste 
by a susceptible host has been proven to result in an infectious disease.  For 
purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes shall be considered to be 
infectious medical wastes: 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who have Class I and/or II 
diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules and 
regulations governing reportable diseases as defined by the Mississippi 
Department of Health; 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biologicals, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components; 
4. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts, and body fluids that are 
removed during surgery and autopsy; 
5. Contaminated carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals that were exposed to 
pathogens in medical research; 
6. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken 
glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious agents; 
<<<PAGE 734>>>
 
734 
  
7. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the State 
Department of Health. 
8. "Medical Waste" means all waste generated in direct patient care or in diagnostic 
or research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically repugnant if found in the 
environment. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.19.2 Medical Waste Management Plan.  All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan that shall include, 
but is not limited to, the following: 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and Medical Waste 
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a manner 
and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, does not 
provide breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and minimizes 
exposure to the public. 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point of 
origin in the producing facility. 
c. Unless approved by the Mississippi Department of Health or treated and 
rendered non-infectious, infectious medical waste (except for sharps in 
approved containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing facility for more 
than seven (7) days above a temperature of 6 C (38F).  Containment of 
infectious medical waste at the producing facility is permitted at or below a 
temperature of 0 C (32F) for a period of not more than ninety (90) days without 
specific approval of the Department of Health. 
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separated from other wastes.  
Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious medical waste shall 
be so secured so as to discourage access by unauthorized persons and shall be 
marked with prominent warning signs on, or adjacent to, the exterior of entry 
doors, gates, or lids.  Each container shall be prominently labeled with a sign 
using language to be determined by the Department and legible during daylight 
hours. 
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have a strength sufficient to 
preclude ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage.  The 
bags shall be securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or 
liquid wastes during storage, handling, or transport. 
<<<PAGE 735>>>
 
735 
  
f. All sharps shall be contained for disposal in leakproof, rigid, puncture-resistant 
containers which are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of the 
contents. 
g. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall be 
a distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infections waste.  Rigid 
containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled. 
h. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical waste 
unless the waste has been rendered non-infectious.  Sharps containers shall not 
be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the institution 
itself and shall not be placed for storage or transport in a portable or mobile 
trash compactor. 
i. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable containers 
as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling, or transport in 
disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums, or portable bins.  The containment 
system shall be leak-proof, have tight-fitting covers and be kept clean and in 
good repair. 
j. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be 
thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a method 
specified by the Mississippi Department of Health, unless the surfaces of the 
containers have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags, 
or other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in I. E. 
2. Approved methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation to 
remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures: 
a. Exposure to hot water at least 180 F for a minimum of 15 seconds. 
b. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with a immersion in one of the 
following for a minimum of three (3) minutes: 
i. Hypochlorite solution (500 ppm available chlorine). 
ii. Phenolic solution (500 ppm active agent). 
iii. Iodoform solution (100 ppm available iodine). 
iv. Quaternary ammonium solution (400 ppm active agent). 
3. Reusable pails, drums, or bins used for containment of infections waste shall not 
be used for containment of waste to be disposed of as non-infectious waste or for 
other purposes except after being decontaminated by procedures as described in 
part (J) of this section. 
a. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste. 
<<<PAGE 736>>>
 
736 
  
b. Once treated and rendered non-infectious, previously defined infectious medical 
waste will be classified as medical waste and may be landfilled in an approved 
landfill. 
4. Treatment or disposal of infectious medical waste shall be by one of the following 
methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render the waste non-
infectious.  Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be 
disposable as medical waste.  Operating procedures for steam sterilizers shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: 
i. Adoption of standard written operating procedures for each steam sterilizer 
including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of container(s), 
closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, and maximum load 
quantity. 
ii. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each complete 
cycle to ensure the attainment of a temperature of 121 C (250 F) for one-half 
hour or longer, depending on quantity and density of the load, in order to 
achieve sterilization of the entire load.  Thermometers shall be checked for 
calibration at least annually. 
iii. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each container that is processed 
to indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
iv. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the 
center of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least 
monthly to confirm the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
v. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in (1), (2), (3), and (4) above 
for period of not less than a year. 
c. By discharge of the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the State Department of Health. 
d. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be disposed of by incineration or 
internment, unless burial at an approved landfill is specifically authorized by the 
Mississippi Department of Health. 
e. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized by the 
U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and Toxic 
Substances.  Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide are 
examples of sterilants that, used in accordance with manufacturer 
recommendation, will render infections waste non-infectious.  Testing with 
<<<PAGE 737>>>
 
737 
  
spores or other equivalent organisms shall be conducted quarterly to ensure the 
sterilization effectiveness of gas or steam treatment. 
5. Treatment and disposal of medical waste which is not infectious shall be by one of 
the following methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal facility 
or part of a facility where medical waste is placed in or on land, and which is not 
a treatment facility. 
c. All the requirements of these standards shall apply, without regard to the 
quantity of medical waste generated per month, to any generator of medical 
waste. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 20   GOVERNING BODY AND ADMINISTRATION:  EMERGENCY  
OPERATIONS PLAN 
Rule 46.20.1 The licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan 
utilizing the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The 
plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of terrorism or 
man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. 
The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by the 
Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department 
of Health, or their designates, for conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specified 
EOP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) critical areas of consideration are: 
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP 
a. Resources and Assets 
b. Safety and Security 
c. Staffing 
d. Utilities  
e. Clinical Activities 
<<<PAGE 738>>>
 
738 
  
2. Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or 
as directed by the Emergency Preparedness and Response. Written evidence of 
current approval or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all applications for facility license 
renewals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 21     GOVERNING BODY  
Rule 46.21.1 General.  The Home Health Agency shall have an organized governing body so 
functioning which is legally responsible for the conduct of the agency.  The 
administrator and all personnel shall be directly or indirectly responsible to this 
governing body.  The  ownership of the home health agency shall be fully 
disclosed to the State licensure authority.  The governing body shall ensure that 
the agency complies with all applicable local, state and federal laws and 
regulations and similar requirements.  Staff of the Agency shall be currently 
licensed or registered in accordance with applicable laws of the State of 
Mississippi.  The governing body shall be responsible for periodic administrative 
and professional evaluations of the agency.  The governing body shall receive, 
review and take action on recommendations made by the evaluating groups and so 
document the governing body shall adopt and enforce bylaws, or an acceptable 
equivalent thereof, in accordance with legal requirements.  The bylaws, shall be 
written, revised as needed, and made available to all members of the governing 
body, the State licensure authority, and the advisory group.  The terms of the 
bylaws shall cover at least the following: 
1. The basis upon which members of the governing body are selected, their terms of 
office, and their duties and responsibilities. 
2. A provision specifying to whom responsibilities for administration and supervision 
of the program and evaluation of practices may be delegated and the methods 
established by the governing body for holding such individuals responsible. 
3. A provision specifying the frequency of board meetings and requiring that minutes 
be taken at each meeting. 
4. A provision requiring the establishment of personnel policies and an organizational 
chart, clearly establishing lines of authority and relationships. 
5. The agency's statement of objectives. 
6. Provisions for appointment of an advisory committee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.21.2 Agency Policies.  The governing body shall adopt agency policies, including 
admission, discharge, and care of patients. 
<<<PAGE 739>>>
 
739 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 22 ADMINISTRATOR  
Rule 46.22.1 Administrator.  The governing body shall be legally responsible for the 
appointment of a qualified administrator and the delegation of responsibility and 
authority.  The governing body shall assure that the administrator has sufficient 
freedom from other responsibilities to permit adequate attention to the overall 
direction and management of the agency.  When there is a change of the 
administrator, the governing authority shall immediately notify the licensing 
agency in writing of the change.  The duties and responsibilities of the agency 
administrator shall include at least the following: 
1. Implementing the policies approved and/or developed by the governing body; 
2. Organizing and coordinating the administrative functions of the services, including 
implementing adequate budgeting and accounting procedures; 
3. Maintaining an ongoing liaison with the professional advisory committee and the 
agency staff; 
4. Coordinating service components to be provided by contractual agreement; and 
5. Arranging employee orientation, continuing education and in-service training 
programs.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.22.2 Designee.  In order to provide administrative direction at all times, the agency's 
governing body or administrator shall designate in writing an individual to act for 
the administrator in his absence. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 23    SUPERVISING NURSE  
Rule 46.23.1 Qualified Supervising Nurse.  Each Home Health Agency shall employ a 
qualified supervising nurse on a full-time basis.  The supervising nurse shall be a 
registered nurse licensed to practice in Mississippi, who shall be readily available 
through the agency office to advise the professional and patient care staff.  The 
supervising nurse shall be employed full-time in home health activities.  A 
qualified alternate is designated in writing to serve in his/her absence.  The 
supervising nurse shall: 
1. Direct, supervise and coordinate the skilled nursing services and other therapeutic 
services provided by the agency. 
2. Be given the authority and responsibility to: 
<<<PAGE 740>>>
 
740 
  
a. Develop and revise written patient care objectives  policies, and procedure 
manuals; 
b. Assist in development of job description; 
c. Assist in recruitment and selection of personnel; 
d. Recommend to administrator number of levels of agency  staff; 
e. Plan and conduct orientation and continuing education for agency staff engaged 
in patient care; 
f. Evaluate agency staff performance; 
g. Assist in planning and budgeting for provision of  services; 
h. Assist in establishing agency criteria for admission and discharge of patients. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.23.2 Director of Nursing Services.  Larger agencies should employ a Director of 
Nursing Services on a full-time basis to assume the duties of the supervising nurse 
listed above. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.23.3 Ratio of Patients.  The following criteria should be used as a minimum standard 
in developing the ratio of patients to a supervising nurse: 
1. The supervising nurse may serve both as the administrator and the supervising 
nurse until the patient census reaches 25 patients, then 
2. The supervising nurse may have a regularly scheduled patient load until the patient 
census reaches 50, then 
3. The supervising nurse may not render regularly scheduled patient services when the 
patient census is over 50, but shall devote full-time to supervisory duties.  Those 
duties may include admission and discharge of patients as well as PRN visits and 
to fill in when another employee is absent. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 24    PROFESSIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE  
Rule 46.24.1 General.  The governing body shall appoint a multidisciplinary advisory 
committee to perform a systematic professional and administrative review and 
program evaluation of the services.  Licensed hospitals may establish a committee 
specifically for this purpose or they may assign the responsibility to an existing 
committee.  Bylaws or the equivalent for this committee shall be initially adopted 
<<<PAGE 741>>>
 
741 
  
and annually reviewed.  Membership on the professional advisory committee 
shall include but not be limited to the following: 
1. A licensed practicing physician; 
2. A registered nurse; 
3. Preferably, an appropriate number of members from other professional disciplines, 
who are representative of the scope of services offered; 
4. A consumer; and  
5. A professional who is neither an owner nor employee of the agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.24.2 Meetings.  The professional advisory committee shall meet at regular intervals, 
but not less than every six months. 
1. Dated written minutes of each committee meeting shall be maintained and made 
available to the licensing agency upon request; and  
2. The agency administrator or his designee shall attend all meetings of the 
committee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.24.3 Duties.  The duties and responsibilities of the professional advisory committee 
shall include but not be limited to the following: 
1. Annual review and reevaluation for the program objectives as required; 
2. Annual evaluation of the appropriateness of the scope of services offered; 
3. Annual review of admission, discharge and patient care policies and procedures; 
4. Annual review of the findings of a random sample of medical records (performed 
by in-house staff members of professional advisory committee) and written 
evaluation on quality of services provided; 
5. Annual review of staffing qualifications, responsibilities and needs; 
6. Annual review of survey findings; 
7. Review of quarterly utilization statistics and findings of quarterly clinical record 
review, and 
8. Written recommendations to the governing body and the agency administrator for 
any revisions in policies and procedures and changes in delivery of care; and 
<<<PAGE 742>>>
 
742 
  
written recommendations on items such as methods for and participation in a 
continuing public education program to acquaint the community, the health care 
professions and public and private community resources on the scope, availability 
and appropriate utilization of home health services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 25    POLICY AND PROCEDURE MANUAL  
Rule 46.25.1 Manual. 
1. The home health agency administrator with advice from the professional advisory 
committee and the director of nursing/supervising nurse shall develop a policy 
and procedure manual. 
2. Written policies and procedures shall include provisions covering at least the 
following: 
a. Definition of the scope of services offered; 
b. Admission and discharge policies; 
c. Medical direction and supervision; 
d. Plans of treatment; 
e. Staff qualifications, assignments and responsibilities; 
f. Medication administration; 
g. Medical records; 
h. Patient safety and emergency care; 
i. Administrative records; 
j. Agency evaluation; 
k. Provisions for after hours emergency care (on call); 
l. Patients rights policies and procedures; and 
m. Provisions for the proper collection, storage and  submission of all referral 
laboratory samples collected  on home health patients. 
3. Patient admission and discharge policies shall include but not be limited to the 
following: 
<<<PAGE 743>>>
 
743 
  
a. Patient shall be accepted for health service on a part-time or intermittent basis 
upon a plan of treatment established by the patient's physician or podiatrist.  
Patients accepted for admission should be essentially home bound and in need 
of skilled services. 
b. Patients are accepted for treatment on the basis of a reasonable expectation that 
the patient's medical, nursing, and social needs can be met adequately by the 
agency in the patient's place of residence. 
c. When services are to be terminated by the home health agency, the patient and 
the physician or podiatrist are to be notified in advance of the date of 
termination stating the reason and a plan shall be developed or a referral made 
for any continuing care. 
d. Services shall not be terminated without an order by the physician or podiatrist 
in consultation with the registered nurse and/or the appropriate therapist.  
Except in cases of non-payment, where the specific and approved plan of care 
has been documented as completed, where the patient refuses treatment, in the 
event of an unsafe environment, or should the patient require the services 
beyond the capability of the agency.  In any event, the physician or podiatrist 
shall be notified of the termination of services.  Arrangements shall be made for 
continuing care when deemed appropriate. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 26   FINANCIAL 
Rule 46.26.1 Accounting.  Accounting methods and procedures shall be carried out in 
accordance with a recognized system of good business practice.  The method and 
procedure used should be sufficient to permit annual audit, accurate determination 
for the cost of operation, and the cost per patient visit.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.26.2 Financial Structure.  All home health agencies shall have an annual operating 
budget which assures sufficient resources to meet operating cost at all times and 
to maintain standards required by these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.26.3 Annual Budget. 
1. The annual operating budget shall include all anticipated income and expenses 
related to the overall operation of the program. 
2. The overall plan and budget shall be reviewed and updated at least annually by the 
governing body. 
<<<PAGE 744>>>
 
744 
  
3. A budget committee consisting of, but not limited to, the following members shall 
meet and document in minutes the planning of a yearly budget: 
a. Representative of the governing body. 
b. Representative of the administrative staff. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 27   PERSONNEL POLICIES 
Rule 46.27.1 Personnel Policies.  Each home health agency shall adopt and enforce personnel 
policies applicable requirements of the Civil Rights Act of 1964: 
1. Fringe benefits, hours of work and leave time; 
2. Requirements for initial and periodic health examinations; 
3. Orientation to the home health agency and appropriate continuing education; 
4. Job descriptions for all positions utilized by the agency; 
5. Annual performance evaluations for all employees; 
6. Compliance with all applicable requirements of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; 
7. Provision for confidentiality of personnel records. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.27.2 Personnel Records.  Each licensed agency shall maintain complete personnel 
records for all employees on file at each licensed site.  Personnel records for all 
employees shall include an application for employment including name and 
address of the employee, social security number, date of birth, name and address 
of next of kin, evidence of qualifications, (including reference checks), current 
licensure and/or registration (if applicable), performance evaluation, evidence of 
health screening, evidence of orientation, and a contract (if applicable), date of 
employment and separation from the agency and the reason for separation.  Home 
Health agencies that provide other home health services under arrangement 
through a contractual purchase of services shall ensure that these services are 
provided by qualified personnel; currently licensed and\or registered if applicable, 
under the supervision of the agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.27.3 Criminal History Record Checks.  
Rule 46.27.3 Criminal History Record Checks. 
 
<<<PAGE 745>>>
 
745 
  
1. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered 
entity shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the 
professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if 
any disciplinary action has been taken against the employee by the 
agency, and a criminal history record check on: 
A.  Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct 
patient care or services; and  
B.  Any individual seeking new employment with a covered entity 
whose initial criminal history record check is over two years. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
 
Rule 46.27.4 Insurance Coverage.  For the protection of owner, administrator, and the patients 
served, it is strongly recommended that every home health agency carry liability 
insurance coverage. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.27.5 Employee Health Screening.  Every employee of a home health agency who 
comes in contact with patients shall receive a health screening by a licensed 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant prior to employment and 
annually thereafter. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.27.6 Staffing Pattern.  Each home health agency sub-unit, and branch shall maintain 
on site current staffing patterns for all health care personnel including full-time, 
part-time, contract staff and staff under arrangement.  The staffing pattern shall be 
developed at least one week in advance, updated as needed, and kept on file for a 
period of one year.  The staffing pattern shall indicate the following for each 
working day: 
1. Name and position of each staff member. 
2. Patients to be visited. 
3. Scheduled supervisory visits. 
4. Staff on call after office hours. The staffing pattern shall be updated daily by each 
home health agency in order to reflect actual staff activities on the previous day. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 28 CONTRACT SERVICES FOR PART-TIME, HOURLY OR PER VISIT 
PERSONNEL-SERVICES BY ARRANGEMENT 
<<<PAGE 746>>>
 
746 
  
Rule 46.28.1 Contract Services.  Services provided to the agency by contract shall be 
documented by means of a written contract with the individual or organization 
providing the service.  The written contract shall include provisions covering at 
least the following: 
1. Specification of services covered by the agreement or contract; 
2. Effective date and length of the contract and terms of reimbursement; 
3. Statement that patients will be accepted for care only by the home health agency; 
4. Statement that services are to be provided only in accordance with the patient's plan 
of treatment and that the patient's plan for treatment will not be altered by the 
contracted individual or agency; 
5. Statement that the quality of services provided and the qualifications of personnel 
who will provide services shall be consistent with the agency's applicable 
personnel and program policies and procedures; 
6. Identification of parties responsible for supervision of personnel covered by the 
agreement or contract; and 
7. Specification for procedures for, and frequency of, exchanging patient care 
information between parties to the contract and their agents, including submitting 
clinical notes, progress notes, scheduling of visits, periodic patient evaluation and 
participating in developing patient care plans. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 29 STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 46.29.1 Orientation.  Upon employment each employee of the home health agency shall 
receive thorough orientation to his position; the agency’s organization, policies 
and objectives; the functions of other agency health personnel and how they relate 
to each other in caring for the patient; relationship of the home health agency to 
other community agencies; standards of ethical practice; confidentiality; and 
patient’s rights. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers 
for Disease Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding 
baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and 
education.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.29.2 Home Health Aide Training Program.  Home Health aides, employed by the 
home health agency shall have previous work experience as a nurses aide or home 
health aide and/or have completed a special program for home health aides.  As a 
part of the orientation for home health aides, each home health agency employing 
unqualified home health aides shall develop and implement a training program for 
<<<PAGE 747>>>
 
747 
  
newly employed home health aides or require that the aide complete a program 
outside the agency that meet Medicare requirements regarding duration and 
subject matter.  The aide training program shall be approved by the Department of 
Health.  Each home health aide shall complete the basic training program prior to 
the provision of services in the home.  Faculty for the training program shall 
consist of:  A registered nurse to provide training in personal care services, and, as 
appropriate, physicians, dietitians, physical therapists, medical social workers, 
and other health personnel to provide training in the appropriate areas of health 
care.  The following topics shall be included in the home health aide training 
program: 
1. The role of the home health aide as a member of the health services team; 
2. Instruction and supervised practice in personal care services of the sick at home, 
including personal hygiene and activities of daily living; 
3. Principles of good nutrition and nutritional problems of the sick and elderly; 
4. Preparation of meals including special diets; 
5. Information on the process of aging and behavior of the aged; 
6. Information on the emotional problems accompanying illness; 
7. Principles and practices of maintaining a clean, healthy and safe environment; 
8. What to report to the supervisor, and 
9. Record keeping. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.29.3 In-Service Training.  The home health agency shall provide an on-going in-
service education program, which should be directly related to home health care 
and which shall be designed to improve the level of skills of all staff members 
involved in direct patient care.  Full-time and part-time nurses and home health 
aides shall participate in a minimum of twelve (12) hours of pertinent continuing 
education programs per year.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.29.4 Documentation of Training.  A written record of all orientation, basic training, 
and in-service education programs shall be maintained.  Records shall reflect 
content of and attendance at all programs, as well as beginning and ending times. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 30 STANDARDS OF ETHICAL PRACTICE 
<<<PAGE 748>>>
 
748 
  
Rule 46.30.1 General.  Each home health agency shall maintain the highest level of ethical 
standards in its business practices.  The governing body of each home health 
agency shall adopt written standards of ethical practice, which shall be strictly 
adhered to by all employees and owners of the agency.  These standards shall be 
posted in each agency office in order to facilitate review by any interested 
individual.  At a minimum, every home health agency shall include the following 
items in the agency's standards of ethical practice: 
1. Neither the owner nor any home health agency employee shall knowingly mislead 
a patient, family member or caretaker concerning services, charges, or use of 
equipment. 
2. Neither the owner nor any home health agency employee shall misuse or 
misappropriate any property-real or personal-belonging to any patient, family 
member or caretaker. 
3. Neither the owner nor any home health agency employee shall knowingly and 
actively recruit a patient under the care of another home health agency. 
4. No employee or patient of a home health agency shall be coerced into participating 
in agency fund raising activities. 
5. The home health agency shall accept patient referrals in a professional manner with 
no remuneration provided to the referring party. 
6. Patient clinical records, administrative records, and financial records shall not be 
falsified by any individual for any reason. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 31 PATIENTS' RIGHTS 
Rule 46.31.1 General.  The agency shall maintain written policies and procedures regarding 
the rights and responsibilities of patients.  These written policies and procedures 
shall be established in consultation with the Professional Advisory Committee.  
Written policies regarding patients' rights shall be made available to patients 
and/or their guardian, next of kin, sponsoring agency or agencies, or lawful 
representative and to the public.  There shall be documented evidence that the 
staff of the agency is trained and involved in the implementation of these policies 
and procedures.  In-service on patient's rights and responsibilities shall be 
conducted annually.  The patients' rights policies and procedures ensure that each 
patient admitted to the agency: 
1. Is fully informed, as evidenced by the patient's written acknowledgment, prior to or 
at the time of admission, of these rights and of all rules and regulations governing 
patient conduct and responsibilities; 
<<<PAGE 749>>>
 
749 
  
2. Is fully informed prior to or at the time of admission and during the course of 
treatment of services available through the agency, and of related charges 
including any charges for services not covered under titles XVIII or XIX of the 
Social Security Act, or any other third party. 
3. Is afforded the opportunity to participate in the planning of his medical treatment 
and to refuse to participate in experimental research; 
4. Is transferred or discharged only for medical reasons, or for his welfare, or for non-
payment (except as prohibited by Titles XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act), 
or on the event of an unsafe environment, or should the patient refuse treatment, 
and is given advance notice to ensure orderly transfer to discharge, and such 
actions are documented in his clinical record; 
5. May voice grievances and recommend changes in policies and services to agency 
staff and/or to outside representatives of his choice, free from restraint, 
interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal; 
6. Is assured confidential treatment of his personal and clinical records, and may 
approve or refuse their release to any individual outside the agency, except, in 
case of his transfer to another health care institution or agency or as required by 
law or third-party payment contract; 
7. Is treated with consideration, respect, and full recognition of his dignity and 
individuality, including privacy in treatment and in care of his personal needs; 
8. No person shall be refused service because of age, race, religious preference, sex, 
marital status or national origin. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 32  PLANNING FOR PATIENT TREATMENT:  PLAN OF 
TREATMENT  
Rule 46.32.1 Development of Plan of Treatment.  Each home health agency shall establish 
policies and procedures for assuring that services and items to be provided are 
specified under a plan of treatment established and regularly reviewed by the 
physician or podiatrist who is responsible for the care of the patient.  Other 
agency personnel shall have input into the development of the plan of treatment as 
deemed appropriate by the physician or podiatrist.  The original plan of treatment 
shall be signed by the physician or podiatrist who is responsible for the care of the 
patient and incorporated in the record maintained by the agency for the patient.  
The total plan is reviewed by the attending physician or podiatrist, in consultation 
with agency professional personnel at such intervals as the severity of the patient's 
illness requires but in any instance, at least once every two (2) months.  The 
registered nurse, and other health professional shall bring to the attention of the 
physician or podiatrist changes in the patient's condition which indicate the need 
for altering the treatment plan or for terminating services.  No medication, 
<<<PAGE 750>>>
 
750 
  
treatment or services shall be given except on signed order of a person lawfully 
authorized to give such an order. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.32.2 Plan of Treatment Content.  The plan of treatment shall include: 
1. Diagnoses relevant to the provision of home health services; 
2. Functional limitations and rehabilitation potential; 
3. Prognosis; 
4. Services authorized by the physician or podiatrist, including frequency and 
duration; 
5. Medications ordered by the physician or podiatrist to include dosage, route of 
administration and frequency; 
6. Treatment, if applicable, including modality, frequency and duration; drug and food 
allergies; 
7. Activities permitted; 
8. Diet; 
9. Specific procedures deemed essential for the health and safety of the patient; 
10. The attending physician or podiatrist's signature; 
11. Long term goals and discharge plans; 
12. Mental status; and 
13. Equipment required. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.32.3 Periodic Review of the Plan of Treatment.  The professional person responsible 
for any specific treatment shall notify the attending physician or podiatrist, other 
professional persons, and responsible agency staff of significant changes in the 
patient's condition.  The plan shall be reviewed by the agency care team at least 
every sixty (60) days and a written summary report sent to the attending physician 
or podiatrist containing home health services provided, the patient status, 
recommendations for revision of the plan of treatment, and the need for 
continuation or termination of services.  The attending physician or podiatrist 
shall be consulted to approve additions or modifications to the original plan.  
When a patient is transferred to a hospital and readmitted to the agency, the plan 
of treatment shall be reviewed by the physician or podiatrist.  If the diagnosis of 
<<<PAGE 751>>>
 
751 
  
the patient has not changed (as documented in the agency's discharge/transfer 
summary, the hospital's discharge summary and reassessment of the patient), a 
statement to continue previous orders will suffice.  At the end of the sixty (60) 
day period, new orders shall be written. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 33 PATIENT PLAN  
Rule 46.33.1 General.  A patient care plan shall be written for each patient by the registered 
nurse or other disciplines as needed based upon an assessment of the patient's 
significant clinical findings, resources, and environment.  The initial assessment 
for patients requiring skilled nursing services is to be made by a registered nurse.  
Assessments by other care team members shall be made on orders of the 
physician or podiatrist.  The patient care plan shall be updated as often as the 
patient's condition indicates at least every sixty (60) days and shall be maintained 
as a permanent part of the patient's record. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.33.2 Content of Patient Care Plan.  The patient care plan shall include: 
1. Patient problems; 
2. Anticipated goals and time frames; 
3. Approaches; and 
4. The discipline responsible for a given element of service. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 34 SERVICES PROVIDED:  GENERAL 
Rule 46.34.1 Each agency shall provide skilled nursing service and at least one other home 
health service on a part-time or intermittent basis.  The skilled nursing service 
shall be provided directly by agency staff.  Other home health services may be 
provided by agency staff directly or provided under arrangement through a 
contractual purchase of services.  All services shall be provided in accordance 
with order of the patient's physician or podiatrist and under a plan of treatment 
established by such physician or podiatrist. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 35 SKILLED NURSING  
Rule 46.35.1 General.  Skilled nursing services shall be provided by or under the supervision 
of registered nurses currently licensed in the State of Mississippi. 
<<<PAGE 752>>>
 
752 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.35.2 Duties of the Registered Nurse.  The duties of the Registered Nurse shall 
include, but not be limited to the performance and documentation of the 
following: 
1. Evaluate and regularly reevaluate the nursing needs of the patient;  
2. Develop and implement the nursing component of the patient care plan; 
3. Provide nursing services, treatments, and diagnostic and preventive 
procedures requiring substantial specialized skill; 
4. Initiate preventive and rehabilitative nursing procedures as appropriate for the 
patient's care and safety; 
5. Observe and report to the physician or podiatrist when appropriate, signs and 
symptoms, reaction to treatments and changes in the patient's physical or 
emotional condition; 
6. Teach, supervise, and counsel the patient and family members regarding the 
nursing care needs and other related problems of the patient at home; check all 
medications to identify ineffective drug therapies, adverse reactions, 
significant side effects, drug allergies and/or contraindicated medications.  
Promptly report any problems to the physician or podiatrist.   
7. Provide supervision and training to other nursing service personnel; 
8. Provide supervision of the Licensed Practical Nurse in the home of each 
patient seen by the LPN at least once a month. It is not a requirement for the 
licensed practical nurse to be present at the supervisory visit by the RN; 
however, it does not preclude the licensed practical nurse from being present. 
In addition, the supervising RN must be accessible by telecommunications to 
the LPN at all times while the LPN is treating patients. 
9. Make supervisory visits to the patient's residence at least every other week 
with the aide alternately present and absent, to provide direct supervision and 
to assess relationships and determine whether goals are being met; and 
10. Ensures that the patient's nursing care and progress is recorded in the clinical 
record. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 36 LICENSED PRACTICAL NURSING SERVICES  
Rule 46.36.1 General.  Licensed Practical Nursing Services shall be provided by a trained 
licensed practical nurse working under the supervision of a registered nurse.  The 
<<<PAGE 753>>>
 
753 
  
duties of the Licensed Practical Nurse shall include, but not limited to the 
following: 
1. Observe, record and report to supervisor on the general physical and mental 
conditions of the patient; 
2. Administer prescribed medications and treatments in accordance with the plan of 
treatment; 
3. Assist the physician or podiatrist and/or registered nurse in performing specialized 
procedures; 
4. Assist the patient with activities of daily living and encourage appropriate self-care; 
and 
5. Prepare progress notes and clinical notes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 37 STUDENT NURSE  
Rule 46.37.1 General.  When an agency elects to participate with an educational institution to 
provide clinical community health nursing experience for students as part of their 
nursing curriculum, the student nurse shall perform skilled nursing functions in 
the patient's home only under the direct supervision of a registered nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.37.2 Written Agreement.  There shall be a written agreement between the agency and 
each educational institution.  The agreement specifies the responsibilities of the 
agency and the educational institution.  The agreement includes, at minimum the 
following: 
1. The agency retains the responsibility for patient care. 
2. The educational institution retains the responsibility for student education. 
3. The student and facility performance expectations. 
4. Faculty supervision of undergraduate students in the field. 
5. Ratio of faculty to students. 
6. Confidentiality regarding patient information. 
7. Required insurance coverage. 
8. Provisions for joint agency/facility student program evaluation. 
<<<PAGE 754>>>
 
754 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 38 HOME HEALTH AIDE SERVICES  
Rule 46.38.1 General.  When an agency provides or arranges for home health aide services, the 
aides shall be assigned because the patient needs personal care.  The services shall 
be given under a physician or podiatrist's order and shall be supervised by a 
registered nurse.  When appropriate, supervision may be given by a physical, 
speech, or occupational therapist. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.38.2 Responsibilities of the Home Health Aide.  Responsibilities of the home health 
aide shall include but not be limited to the following: 
1. The home health aide shall perform only those personal care activities contained in  
written assignment by a health professional employee which include assisting the 
patient with personal hygiene, ambulation, eating, dressing and shaving. 
2. The home health aide may perform other activities as taught by a health 
professional employee for a specific patient.  These include, but are not limited to:  
shampoo, reinforcement of a dressing, assisting with the use of devices for aide to 
daily living (walker, wheelchair), assisting with prescribed range of motion 
exercises which the home health aide and the patient have been taught by a health 
professional employee, doing simple urine tests for sugar, acetone or albumin, 
measuring and preparing special diets, intake an output. 
3. The home health aide shall not be allowed to perform the following and other 
procedures requiring skilled services:  Change sterile dressings, irrigate body 
cavities such as a colostomy or wound, perform a gastric lavage or gavage, 
decubitus care, catheterize a patient, administer medications, apply heat by any 
method, care for a tracheotomy tube, or any personal health service which has not 
been included by the professional nurse in the aide assignment sheet. 
4. The home health aide shall keep records of personal health care activities. 
5. The home health aide shall observe appearance and behavioral changes in the 
patient and report to the professional nurse. 
6. The home health aide patient services shall be evaluated by a health professional at 
least every other week, with the aide alternately present and absent, in the home 
for those patients receiving skilled services.  When only home health aide services 
are being furnished to a patient, a registered nurse must make a supervisory visit 
to the patient's residence at least once every 60 days.  This supervisory visit must 
occur while the aide is furnishing patient care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
<<<PAGE 755>>>
 
755 
  
Subchapter 39 PHYSICAL THERAPY SERVICE  
Rule 46.39.1 General.  Physical therapy services shall be given in accordance with the 
responsible physician’s or podiatrist’s written order by a physical therapist or 
physical therapy assistant currently licensed in the State of Mississippi to practice 
as a physical therapist or physical therapist assistant.  The physician’s or 
podiatrist’s order shall be specific as to modalities to be utilized and frequency of 
therapy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.39.2 Duties of the Physical Therapist.  The duties of the physical therapist shall 
include, but not be limited to the following: 
1. Assisting the physician or podiatrist in the functional evaluation of the patient and 
development of the individual plan of treatment; 
2. Developing and implementing a physical therapy component of the patient care 
plan; 
3. Rendering treatments to relieve pain, develop or restore function, and maintain 
maximum performance; directing and aiding the patient in active and passive 
exercise, muscle reeducation, and engaging in functional training activities in 
daily living; 
4. Observing and reporting to the responsible physician or podiatrist the patient's 
reactions to treatments and any changes in the patient's conditions; 
5. Instructing the patient and family on the patient's total physical therapy program 
and in which they may work with the patient; 
6. Instructing the patient and family on the patient's total physical therapy program 
and in the care and use of appliances, prosthetic and other orthopedic devices; 
7. Preparing clinical notes, progress notes, and discharge summaries; 
8. Participating in agency in-service training programs; 
9. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel;  
10. Developing written policies and procedures for the physical therapy services of 
the home health agency; 
11. Make the initial visit for evaluation of the patient and establishment of a plan of 
care;  
12. The supervising physical therapist must have a case conference with the physical 
therapy assistant to discuss the evaluation, review the established plan of care, and 
<<<PAGE 756>>>
 
756 
  
provide the physical therapy assistant with instructions needed for the safe and 
effective treatment of the patient before the physical therapy assistant begins 
providing services to the patient; 
13. The supervising physical therapist must visit and personally render treatment and 
reassess each patient who is provided services by the physical therapist assistant no 
later than every sixth treatment day or thirtieth calendar day, whichever occurs first.  
It is not a requirement for the physical therapist assistant to be present at this visit; 
however, it does not preclude the physical therapist assistant from being present.  In 
addition, the supervising physical therapist must be accessible by 
telecommunications to the physical therapist assistant at all times while the 
physical therapist assistant is treating patients. 
14. Make the final visit to terminate the plan of care; and 
15. Provide supervision for no more than four (4) physical therapy assistants. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.39.3 Duties of the Physical Therapy Assistant.  The duties of the physical therapist 
assistant shall be limited to the following: 
1. Perform physical therapy procedures and related tasks that have been selected and 
delegated by the supervising physical therapist with the exception of 
interpretation of referrals; identification, determination or modification of plans of 
care (including goals and treatment programs); final discharge 
assessment/evaluation or establishment of the discharge plan; or establishment of 
the discharge plan; or therapeutic techniques beyond the skill and knowledge of 
the physical therapist assistant. 
2. Notify the supervising physical therapist of changes in the patient's status, 
including all untoward patient responses. 
3. Discontinue immediately any treatment procedures which in their judgment 
appear to be harmful to the patient. 
4. Preparing clinical notes and progress notes. 
5. Participation in staff in-service programs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 40 SPEECH PATHOLOGY AND AUDIOLOGY SERVICES  
Rule 46.40.1 General.  The speech pathologist shall be currently licensed by the Mississippi 
Department of Health.  The audiologist shall be currently licensed by the 
Mississippi Department of Health.  Speech pathology and audiology services shall 
be given in accordance with the responsible physician's written order by a 
<<<PAGE 757>>>
 
757 
  
licensed speech pathologist or a licensed audiologist.  The frequency of service 
shall be specified in the physician's order. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.40.2 Duties of the Speech Pathologist and/or Audiologist.  The duties of the speech 
pathologist and/or audiologist shall include, but not be limited to: 
1. Assisting the physician in the evaluation of the patient with speech, hearing, or 
language disorders; and development of the individual plan of treatment; 
2. Developing and implementing a Speech Pathology and/or Audiology Component 
of the patient care plan; 
3. Providing rehabilitative services for speech, hearing, and language disorders; 
4. Observing and reporting to the responsible physician the patient's reaction to 
treatment and any changes in the patient's condition. 
5. Instructing other agency personnel, the patient and family members in methods to 
improve and correct speech, hearing, and language disabilities; 
6. Preparing clinical notes, progress notes, and discharge summaries; 
7. Participating in agency in-service training programs; 
8. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel; and 
9. Developing written policies and procedures for the Speech Pathology/Audiology 
Services of the Home Health Agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
 
Subchapter 41 OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY SERVICES  
Rule 46.41.1 General.  When an agency provides or arranges for occupational therapy, 
services shall be given in accordance with a physician's or podiatrist’s written 
order by a licensed occupational therapist or a licensed occupational therapy 
assistant under the supervision of a licensed occupational therapist. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.41.2 Duties of the Occupational Therapist.  Duties of the occupational therapist shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1. Assisting the physician or podiatrist in the evaluation of patients by applying 
diagnostic and prognostic tests and by reporting the findings in terms of problems 
<<<PAGE 758>>>
 
758 
  
and abilities of the patient; identifying patients' therapy needs and development of 
the individual plan of treatment; 
2. Developing and implementing an occupational therapy component of the patient 
care plan. 
3. Treating patients for the purpose of attaining maximum functional performance 
through use of such procedures as: 
a. Task orientation therapeutic activities; 
b. Activities of daily living; 
c. Perceptual motor training and sensory integrative treatment; 
d. Orthotics and splinting; 
e. Use of adaptive equipment; 
f. Prosthetic training; 
g. Homemaking training. 
6. Observing, recording and reporting to the physician or podiatrist and agency 
personnel the patient's reaction to treatment and any changes in the patient's 
condition; 
7. Counseling with regard to levels of functional performance and the availability of 
community resources; 
8. Instructing other health team personnel, patients, and family members; 
9. Preparing clinical notes, progress notes, and discharge summaries; 
10. Participating in staff in-service educational programs; 
11. Developing written policies and procedures for the occupational therapy services 
of the home health agency; 
12. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel; and  
13. Make supervisory visits to the patient's residence with the Occupational Therapy 
Assistant at least once every three (3) weeks or every five (5) to seven (7) 
treatment sessions to provide direct supervision and to assess the adherence to the 
plan of treatment and progress toward established goals. 
14. Conduct all initial assessments and establish the goals and  plans of treatment 
before the treatments are provided to the patient by an Occupational Therapy 
Assistant. 
<<<PAGE 759>>>
 
759 
  
15. Prepare discharge summaries, interim assessments, and initiate any changes in the 
plan of care for patients treated by Occupational Therapy Assistants. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.41.3 Duties of the Occupational Therapy Assistant.  The responsibilities of the 
therapy assistant shall be limited to the following: 
1. Treating patients for the purpose of attaining maximum functional performance 
through the use of procedures as: 
a. Task oriented therapeutic activities; 
b. Activities of daily living; 
c. Perceptual motor training and sensory integrative treatment; 
d. Orthotics and splinting; 
e. Use of adaptive equipment; 
f. Prosthetic training; 
g. Homemaking training; 
h. Patient and family member education. 
2. Observing, recording and reporting to the Supervising Therapist, any reaction to 
treatment and any changes in the patient's condition. 
3. Preparation of clinical or treatment notes. 
4. Participation in staff education programs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 42 MEDICAL SOCIAL SERVICES 
Rule 46.42.1 General.  Medical social services shall be provided by a social worker who has a 
masters degree from a school of social work accredited by the Council on Social 
Work Education and is licensed as such by the State of Mississippi and has one 
year of social work experience in a health care setting or by a licensed social 
worker who has a bachelor's degree from a school of social work accredited by 
the Council of Social Work Education or Southern Association of Colleges and 
Schools and has one year of social work experience in a health care setting and 
who is supervised by a licensed social worker with a masters degree.  Medical 
social services shall be given in accordance with the responsible physician or 
podiatrist's written order by a medical social worker.  Master's degree social 
<<<PAGE 760>>>
 
760 
  
worker shall review and evaluate the performance of the bachelor's degree social 
worker on a monthly basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.42.2 Duties of the Medical Social Worker.  The duties of the medical social worker 
include, but are not limited to the following: 
1. Assisting the responsible physician or podiatrist and other members of the agency 
team in understanding the significant social and emotional factors related to 
patient health problems; 
2. Assessing the social and emotional factors in order to estimate the patient's 
capacity and potential to cope with problems of daily living; and assisting in the 
development of an individual plan of treatment; 
3. Developing and implementing a social work component of the patient care plan; 
4. Helping the patient and his/her family to understand, accept, and follow medical 
recommendations and provide services planned to restore the patient to optimum 
social and health adjustment within his/her capacity; 
5. Assisting patients and their families with personal and environmental difficulties 
which predispose towards illness or interfere with obtaining maximum benefits 
from medical care; 
6. Utilizing resources such as family and community agencies to assist the patient in 
resuming life in the community or to learn to live with his/her disability; 
7. Preparing clinical notes, progress notes, and discharge summaries; 
8. Participating in agency in-service training programs; 
9. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel;  
10. Development of written policies and procedures for medical social services of the 
home health agency; and  
11. Review and evaluate the work of a bachelor's degree licensed social worker on a 
monthly basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 43 NUTRITIONAL SERVICES  
Rule 46.43.1 General.  Nutrition is recognized as an important component of the total health 
status of all persons.  Because state and community health agencies are concerned 
with the total health care of all, nutrition services must be considered a vital 
element in all home health agencies' programs.  When a home health agency 
<<<PAGE 761>>>
 
761 
  
elects to provide nutrition services, these services shall include an evaluation of 
the nutritional status of the patient, the results of which shall be included in the 
patient care plan.  Nutritional services shall be provided by or under the 
supervision of a registered dietitian. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.43.2 Duties of the Dietitian.  The responsibilities of the Dietitian shall include but not 
be limited to, the following: 
1. Assisting the physician or podiatrist in the evaluation of the patient's nutritional 
status and development of the individual plan of treatment; 
2. Developing and implementing a nutritional component of the patient care plan; 
3. Selecting, preparing and evaluating teaching materials and aids for patient 
counseling and education and furnishing direct nutritional counseling services to 
the patient; 
4. Observing and reporting to the physician or podiatrist the patient's reaction and 
adherence to the diet and change in the patient's nutritional status; 
5. Preparing clinical notes, progress, and discharge summaries; 
6. Participating in agency in-service training programs; 
7. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel; and 
8. Developing written policies and procedures for the nutritional services of the 
home health agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
 
Subchapter 44 RESPIRATORY THERAPY SERVICES  
Rule 46.44.1 General.  Respiratory care services shall be provided only by a registered 
respiratory therapist or a certified respiratory therapy technician upon the written 
order of a physician.  The physician's order shall specify the modality to be 
utilized and the frequency of services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.44.2 Duties of the Respiratory Therapist or Technician.  The duties of the 
registered respiratory therapist or certified respiratory therapy technician shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: 
<<<PAGE 762>>>
 
762 
  
1. Assisting the physician in the evaluation of patients; respiratory disorders, and 
development of individual plan of treatment; 
2. Developing and implementing a respiratory therapy component of the patient care 
plan; 
3. Providing rehabilitative services for respiratory disorders; 
4. Observing and reporting to the responsible physician the patient's reaction to 
treatment and any changes in the patient's condition; and 
5. Instructing other agency personnel, the patient, and family member in methods to 
improve and correct respiratory disabilities; 
6. Preparing clinical notes, progress notes, and discharge summaries; 
7. Participating in agency in-service training programs; 
8. Acting as a consultant to other agency personnel; and 
9. Developing written policies and procedures for the respiratory therapy services of 
the home health agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 45 OUTPATIENT SERVICES IN LONG TERM CARE FACILITIES  
Rule 46.45.1 General.  Any services provided by a home health agency on an outpatient basis 
to long term care facilities shall be provided under the terms of a written 
agreement signed by representatives of the home health agency and the long term 
care facility.  The agreement shall contain:  responsibilities of both parties, 
functions, objectives and terms of the agreement, including financial agreements 
and charges.  The services shall be provided in accordance with all applicable 
laws, rules, and regulations.  Clinical records for patients receiving the service 
shall be maintained with the original clinical record on file in the home health 
agency office and a copy provided the long term care facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 46 APPLIANCE AND EQUIPMENT SERVICE  
Rule 46.46.1 General.  Appliance and equipment services may be provided to patients by the 
home health agency only upon the written order of a physician or podiatrist.  A 
home health agency may elect to provide the service directly or indirectly through 
a supplier.  Policies and procedures shall be developed for the appliance and 
equipment services.  All appliances and equipment provided for patients shall be 
maintained in good condition. 
<<<PAGE 763>>>
 
763 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 47 CLINICAL RECORDS:  GENERAL 
Rule 46.47.1 General.  Clinical records shall be under the direction of a designated person with 
adequate staff and facilities to perform required functions.  The agency shall 
maintain a medical record for each patient covering those services provided 
directly by the agency and those provided by another agency or individual.  
Symbols or abbreviations used in the clinical records shall be approved by the 
staff and a current copy of abbreviations shall be maintained in the agency office.  
Clinical records shall be readily accessible at all times. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 48 CLINICAL RECORD 
Rule 46.48.1 Clinical Record Content.  A clinical record shall be established and maintained 
for every person admitted to home health services.  The original or signed copy of 
clinical reports shall be filed in the clinical record.  Clinical records shall contain: 
1. Appropriate identifying information for the patient, household members and 
caretakers, pertinent diagnoses, medical history, and current findings; 
2. A plan of treatment; 
3. Initial and periodic patient assessments by the professional discipline responsible 
performed in the home; 
4. Patient care plan; 
5. Clinical notes signed and dated by all disciplines rendering service to the patient 
for each contact, written the day of service and incorporated into the patient's 
clinical record at least weekly; 
6. Reports of case conferences including staff contacts with physicians or podiatrists 
and other members of the health care pertaining to the patients.  Case conferences 
shall be conducted and documented at least every sixty (60) days or more often as 
required by the patient's condition; 
7. Written summary reports to the physician or podiatrist every sixty (60) days; 
8. Progress notes written at least every sixty (60) days or more frequently as 
warranted by the patient's conditions; 
9. Documentation of supervisory visits by a registered nurse or other applicable 
supervisory personnel; 
10. A discharge summary; 
<<<PAGE 764>>>
 
764 
  
11. A copy of the patient transfer information sheet if patient is admitted to another 
health care facility; 
12. Home health aide written instructions;  
13. Verbal orders shall be taken only by registered nurses or health care professionals, 
and immediately recorded in the patient's clinical record with the date.  These 
orders shall be countersigned by the physician or podiatrist; and  
14. Duplicate copies of all laboratory results as reported by the referral laboratory. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 49 CONFIDENTIALITY  
Rule 46.49.1 Patient Confidentiality.  The agency shall insure confidentiality of patient 
information in accordance with written policies and procedures.  Records shall be 
stored in a locked area and only authorized personnel shall have access to the 
records.  Clinical records are the property of the home health agency and may be 
released only with the written consent of the patient, the legal guardian, or in 
accordance with the law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 50 RETENTION OF RECORDS  
Rule 46.50.1 Clinical Records.  Clinical records shall be preserved for a period of not less than 
five (5) years following discharge.  These records may be reproduced on film 
(microfilmed) or other form of medium acceptable to the licensing agency and, 
after the discharge of the patient involved, retire the original record so 
reproduced.  If a facility ceases operation, arrangements shall be made for the 
preservation of records to ensure compliance with these regulations.  The 
licensing agency shall be notified, in writing, concerning the arrangements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 51 AUTHORSHIP  
Rule 46.51.1 Authorship.  Entries in the record shall be dated and signed by the person making 
the entry. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 52 EVALUATION:  GENERAL  
Rule 46.52.1 General.  The home health agency shall have written policies requiring an overall 
General. The home health agency shall have written policies requiring an overall 
evaluation of the agency's total program at least once a year. The evaluation 
<<<PAGE 765>>>
 
765 
  
consists of an overall policy and administrative review and a clinical record 
review. The evaluation shall assess the extent to which the agency's program is 
appropriate, adequate, effective, and efficient. Results of the evaluation shall be 
reported to and acted upon by those responsible for the operation of the agency 
and maintained separately as administrative records. The facility must follow all 
written policies developed by the licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 53 POLICY AND ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW  
Rule 46.53.1 Evaluation Process.  As a part of the evaluation process, the policies and 
administrative practices of the agency are reviewed to determine the extent to 
which they promote appropriate, adequate, effective and efficient patient care.  
Mechanisms are established in writing for the collection of pertinent data to assist 
in evaluation.  The data to be considered may include but are not limited to:  
number of patients receiving each service offered, number of patient visits, 
reasons for discharge, breakdown by diagnosis, sources of referral, number of 
patients not accepted with reasons, and total staff days for each service offered. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 54 CLINICAL RECORD REVIEW (54) 
Rule 46.54.1 Clinical Records.  In addition to the annual clinical record review by the in-house 
staff members on the Professional Advisory Committee, members of professional 
disciplines representing at least the scope of the agency's programs shall at least 
quarterly review a sample of both active and closed clinical records to assure that 
established policies are followed in providing services (direct as well as those 
under arrangement).  The clinical records of at least 10% of the total patient 
census are to be reviewed; however, at no time shall the review consist of less 
than ten (10) or more than fifty (50) records.  The records reviewed shall be 
representative of the services rendered and include records of patients served by 
branch offices, if applicable.  This review shall include, but not be limited to the 
following: 
1. If the patient care plan was directly related to the stated diagnosis and plan of 
treatment; 
2. If the frequency of visits was consistent with plan of treatment; 
3. If the services could have been provided in a shorter span of time. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Rule 46.54.2 Continuing Review.  There shall be a continuing review of clinical records for 
each sixty (60) day period that a patient received home health services to 
<<<PAGE 766>>>
 
766 
  
determine adequacy of the plan of treatment and appropriateness of continuation 
of care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13 
Subchapter 55 CONCLUSION:  GENERAL  
Rule 46.55.1 Conclusion.  Conditions which have not been covered in the Standards shall be 
enforced in accordance with the best practices as interpreted by the Licensing 
Agency.  The Licensing Agency reserves the right to: 
1. Review the payroll records of each home health agency for the purpose of 
verifying staffing patterns; 
2. Visit home health patients in their place of residence in order to evaluate the 
quality of care provided; 
3. Grant variances as it deems necessary for agencies existing prior to July 1, 1981; 
4. Information obtained by the licensing agency through filed reports, inspection, or 
as otherwise authorized, shall not be disclosed publicly in such manner as to 
identify individuals or institutions, except in proceedings involving the questions 
of Licensure; and 
5. The Licensing Agency shall reserve the right to review any and all records and 
reports of any home health agency, as deemed necessary to determine compliance 
with these Minimum Standards of Operation. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-71-13
CHAPTER 47 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PERSONAL CARE HOMES ASSISTED 
LIVING 
SUBCHAPTER 1  GENERAL:  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 47.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi as per Section 
43-11-13 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, the Mississippi State 
Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the following Rules, 
Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Personal Care Homes - Assisted Living.  
Upon adoption of these Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards, all former 
rules, regulations and minimum standards in conflict therewith, previously 
adopted by the licensing agency, are hereby repealed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.1.2 Codes and Ordinances.  Every licensed facility located inside the boundaries of a 
municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and ordinances 
<<<PAGE 767>>>
 
767 
  
applicable thereto.  In addition, each licensed facility shall comply with all 
applicable state and federal laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.1.3 Fire Safety.  No facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the safety 
regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire as 
well as for protection of life and property against fire. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.1.4 Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable 
deaths, or avoidable, serious, or life-threatening injuries to residents resulting 
from fires, explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the 
Life Safety Code Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after 
the occurrence. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2   DEFINITIONS 
Rule 47.2.1 Assisted Living.  The term “assisted living” shall mean the provision of personal 
care and the addition of supplemental services to include, but not be limited to, 
the provision of  medical services (i.e., medication procedures and medication 
administration), and emergency response services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.2 Ambulation.  The terms “ambulation” or “ambulatory” shall mean the resident’s 
ability to bear weight, pivot, and safely walk independently or with the use of a 
cane, walker, or other mechanical supportive device (i.e., including, but not 
limited to, a wheelchair).  A resident who requires a wheelchair must be capable 
of transferring to and propelling the wheelchair independently or with prompting.  
No more than ten percent (10%) of the resident census shall require assistance 
during any staffing shift as described and required herein. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.3 Criminal History Record Checks.  
1. Affidavit.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, the term “affidavit” means the use of Mississippi State Department of 
Health (MSDH) Form #210, or a copy thereof, which shall be placed in the 
individual’s personal file. 
2. Employee.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a covered entity.  The 
term “employee”, also includes any individual who by contract with the covered 
<<<PAGE 768>>>
 
768 
  
entity provides direct patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or in 
treatment rooms. 
3. The term employee does not include healthcare professional/technical students, as 
defined in Section 37-29-232, performing clinical training in a licensed entity 
under contracts between their schools and the licensed entity, and does not 
include students at high schools who observe the treatment and care of patients in 
a licensed entity as part of the requirements of an allied health course taught in the 
school if: 
a. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; and 
b. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school stating 
that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo contendere to a 
felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, manslaughter, armed robbery, 
rape, sexual battery, any sex offenses listed in section  45-33-23 (g),child abuse, 
arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or 
felonious abuse and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction 
or plea was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea. 
c. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi Medical 
Center for whom criminal history record checks and fingerprinting are obtained 
in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are exempt from application of the term 
employee under Section 43-11-13. 
4. Covered Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered 
entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional staffing agency. 
5. Licensed Entity. For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, home 
health agency or hospice. 
6. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program. For the 
purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care professional/vocational 
technical academic program” means an academic program in medicine, nursing, 
dentistry, occupational therapy, physical therapy, social services, speech therapy, 
or other allied-health professional whose purpose is to prepare professionals to 
render patient care services.  
7. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student.  For purposes of 
criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a healthcare 
professional/vocational technical academic program. 
8. Direct Patient Care or Services.  For the purposes of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means direct hands-on 
medical patient care and services provided by an individual in a patient, resident 
or client’s room, treatment room or recovery room. Individuals providing direct 
<<<PAGE 769>>>
 
769 
  
patient care may be directly employed by the facility or provides patient care on a 
contractual basis. 
9. Documented Disciplinary Action.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary action” means any 
action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.4 Facility.  The term “facility” shall mean any home or institution that (1) has 
sought or is currently seeking designation as a “licensed facility” under the terms 
of these regulations; or (2) is  operating a home or institution unlawfully which, 
by its nature and operational intent, is required to be a licensed facility under the 
terms of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.5 Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A situation 
in which the licensed facility’s failure to meet one or more regulatory 
requirements has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, 
or death to a resident. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.6 IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s).  A whole blood test used in to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection.   The IGRA blood 
test used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.7 Licensing Agency.  The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.8 Licensed Facility.  The term “licensed facility” shall mean any personal care 
home for assisted living which has been issued a license for operation by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.9 Mantoux Test.  A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one-tenth 
(0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative-tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm with 
a needle and syringe.  The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and seventy-
two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to the size of 
the induration.  The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on 
the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition for 
<<<PAGE 770>>>
 
770 
  
“significant tuberculin skin test”).  This test is used to evaluate the likelihood that 
a person is infected with M. tuberculosis.  It is the most reliable and standardized 
technique for tuberculin testing.  It should be administered only by persons 
certified in the intradermal technique. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.10 Medication Administration.  For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
“medication administration” is limited to these decisions, made by someone other 
than the person for whom the medication has been prescribed, regarding (1) 
which medication is to be taken, (2) the dosage of the medication, or (3) the time 
at which the medication is to be taken. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.11 Medication Assistance. For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
“medication assistance” is any form of delivering  medication which has been 
prescribed which is not defined as “medication administration”, including, but not 
limited to, the physical act of handing an oral prescription medication to the 
patient along with liquids to assist the patient in swallowing. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.12 Personal Care.  The term "personal care" shall mean the assistance rendered by 
personnel of the licensed facility to residents in performing one or more of the 
activities of daily living, including but not limited to bathing, walking, excretory 
functions, feeding, personal grooming, and dressing. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.13 Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters or 
greater is significant (or positive) in the following: 
1. Persons known to have or suspected of having human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). 
2. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
3. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous tuberculosis.  
4. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown).  An induration of ten (10) 
millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all other persons tested in 
Mississippi.  A tuberculin skin test is recorded in millimeters of induration.  For 
accurate results, measure the widest diameter of the palpable induration transverse 
(across) the arm. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 771>>>
 
771 
  
Rule 47.2.14 Surveyor.  The term "surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on a 
contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting surveys, 
inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the licensing 
agency’s responsibilities for licensure and regulation of institutions for the aged 
and infirm. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.2.15 Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who will 
periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to reduce the 
likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If the initial 
tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated one (1) to 
three (3) weeks later.  If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably 
represents a boosted reaction.  If the second test is also negative, the person is 
classified as not infected.  A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate 
new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3 PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT 
Rule 47.3.1 Authority.  The licensing agency shall have the power to adopt, amend, 
promulgate and enforce such rules, regulations and minimum standards as it 
deems appropriate, within the law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4   INSPECTION 
Rule 47.4.1 Inspections Required.  Each licensed facility shall be inspected by the licensing 
agency or by persons delegated with authority by said licensing agency at such 
intervals as the licensing agency may direct.  The licensing agency and/or its 
authorized representatives shall have the right to inspect construction work in 
progress.  New facilities shall not be licensed without having first been inspected 
for compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 5   CLASSIFICATION 
Rule 47.5.1 Personal Care Home - Residential Living.  The terms “Personal Care Home - 
Residential” and “Residential Personal Care Home” shall mean any place or 
facility operating 24 hours a day, seven (7) days a week, accepting individuals 
who require  personal care services or individuals, who due to functional 
impairments, may require mental health services to compensate for activities of 
daily living.  Regulation by the licensing agency for such facilities are governed 
by the “Regulations Governing Licensure of Personal Care Homes - Residential”.  
<<<PAGE 772>>>
 
772 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.5.2 Personal Care Home - Assisted Living.  The terms “Personal Care Home - 
Assisted Living” and “Assisted Living Personal Care Home” shall mean any 
place or facility operating 24 hours a day, seven (7) days a week, accepting 
individuals who require assisted living services as governed by the regulations 
herein. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6   TYPES OF LICENSE 
Rule 47.6.1 Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each facility that meets the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.6.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the licensing agency may issue a 
provisional license only if the licensing agency is satisfied that preparations are 
being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and safety of 
residents will not be endangered. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 7   APPLICATION OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE 
Rule 47.7.1 Application. Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency, on forms provided by the licensing agency, which 
shall contain such information as the licensing agency may require. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.7.2 Fees. 
1. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the Board, made payable to 
the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by check, money order, or 
electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable.  
2.   Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a user fee, in an amount 
set by the Board, and shall be made payable, either by check, money order, or 
electronic means, to the Mississippi State Department of Health, when it is 
required to review and/or inspect the proposal of any licensed facility in which 
there are additions, renovations, modernizations, expansions, alterations, 
conversions, modifications, or replacements. Fees are non-refundable.  
3. Should all documentation appropriate for license renewal not be received by  
 Mississippi State Department of Health, Division of Health Facilities Licensure 
<<<PAGE 773>>>
 
773 
  
 and Certification on or prior to the expiration date of the license, a late fee in an 
 amount set by the Board, will be assessed and must be submitted payable by 
 business check, money order, or electronic means, to the Mississippi State 
 Department of Health prior to the issuance of a license. Should all paperwork 
 necessary for renewal not be submitted within 30 days post-expiration of the 
 license, the facility shall be considered unlicensed and actions taken, as 
 appropriate to process termination of the license. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43 -11-13 
Rule 47.7.3 Name of Facility. Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency 
and by which the facility is licensed shall be used in telephone listing, on 
stationery, in advertising, etc. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43 -11-13 
Rule 47.7.4 Number of Beds. The maximum number of beds for which the facility is 
licensed shall not be exceeded. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 8   LICENSING 
Rule 47.8.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set forth 
the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the classification of 
the facility, the type of building, the bed capacity for which the facility is licensed 
and the licensed number. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.8.2 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by an interested person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.8.3 License Not Transferable.  The license is not transferable or assignable to any 
other person except by written approval of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.8.4 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31, following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.8.5 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable annually upon: 
1. Filing and approval of an application for renewal by the licensee. 
<<<PAGE 774>>>
 
774 
  
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee. 
3. Maintenance by the licensed facility of minimum standards in its physical facility, 
staff, services, and operation as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 9   DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 47.9.1 Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearings and Review.  The licensing agency, 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is 
authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, or deny renewal of a license, in 
any case in which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with 
the requirements established under the law and these regulations.  Also, the 
following shall be grounds for denial or revocation of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license, or renewal of license. 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of Sections 
43-11-1 et seq, of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or of the rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards established by the licensing agency. 
3. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or other employees or personnel of the 
licensed facility. 
4. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the licensed 
facility to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the residents. 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the licensed facility and/or its services. 
7. Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of residents and employees 
of said licensed facility.  Detrimental practices include but are not limited to: 
a. Cruelty to a resident or indifference to the needs which are essential to the 
general well-being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a resident. 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of a resident. 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a resident. 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant when 
required by a resident's condition. 
<<<PAGE 775>>>
 
775 
  
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a resident's condition becomes critical. 
g. Admission of a resident whose condition demands care beyond the level of care 
provided by the licensed facility as determined by its classification. 
9. A violation of 24-hour supervision requirement and/or the transfer of a resident 
from the licensed facility to any unlicensed facility may result in the facility’s 
license being made provisional for a period of 90 days.  At the end of that 90-day 
period, if corrective actions have not been taken by the licensed facility, that 
Provisional License may be revoked. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.9.2 Immediate Revocation of License:  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, the 
license and require closure of any institution for the aged or infirm, including any 
other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of the residents of 
said institution or the health and safety of the general public. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 10 PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING 
DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.10.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency will provide an opportunity for a 
fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) 
days from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally upon the 
applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision in Chancery Court 
pursuant to Section 43-11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. An additional period 
of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency. 
<<<PAGE 776>>>
 
776 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.10.2 Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating facility 
without a license shall be declared in violation of these regulations and may be 
punished as set forth in the enabling statute.  Further, any person who violates any 
provision of the enabling statute, or of these regulations promulgated thereto 
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Such misdemeanor 
shall, upon conviction, be as referenced in Section 43-11-25 of the Mississippi 
Code of 1972, Annotated. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.10.3 Ban on Admissions.  If a condition of immediate jeopardy exists at a licensed 
facility, written notice of the determination of the condition shall be provided by 
the licensing agency to the licensed facility, along with the notification that a ban 
on all admissions is to be imposed five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the 
notice by the licensed facility.  If the licensing agency’s determination of a 
condition of immediate jeopardy on the day of the licensure visit/survey is 
confirmed, a ban on all admissions shall be imposed until the licensed facility 
achieves compliance and such compliance is verified by the licensing agency.  
The licensing agency will verify the licensed facility’s corrective actions as soon 
as possible after the licensing agency receives a plan of correction from the 
licensed facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 11 ADMINISTRATION 
Rule 47.11.1 Operator.  There shall be a full-time employee designated as operator of the 
licensed facility who shall be responsible for the management of the licensed 
facility.  The operator shall be at least twenty-one years of age and shall be a high 
school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall not be a resident of the 
licensed facility.  The operator shall have verification that he is not listed on the 
"Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."  When the operator is not within the 
licensed facility, there shall be an individual onsite at the licensed facility who 
shall represent the operator, and be capable of assuming the responsibility of 
operator.  Said person must be at least twenty-one years or age and shall be a high 
school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall have verification that he is not 
listed on the "Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry." 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.2 Operator Mentoring.  Operators shall be scheduled to spend two (2) concurrent 
days with the licensing agency for the purpose of training and mentoring.  
Placement of an operator with the licensing agency may include, but not be 
limited to, assignments within the licensing agency’s central offices or placement 
with a survey team.  Any costs associated with placements for the purposes of this 
section shall be borne by the licensed facility at which the operator is employed.  
<<<PAGE 777>>>
 
777 
  
The operator shall keep confidential and not disclose to any other persons any 
identifying information about any person or entity that he/she learned while 
observing operations as required by this section, except as otherwise mandated by 
law. 
1. This section shall apply to operators who:  have been employed by a licensed 
facility for less than six (6) months, during which time the placement must be 
completed. 
2. This section shall not apply to operators who: 
a. have previously participated in a placement as required by this section; or 
b. who were previously employed by the licensing agency in a surveyor capacity. 
c. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the operator from serving in such capacity of a licensed facility until 
a placement is completed. 
d. This section shall go into effect January 1, 2002 and thereafter. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.3 Surveyor Mentoring.  Surveyors shall be scheduled to spend two (2) concurrent 
days with a licensed facility for the purpose of training and mentoring.  Selection 
of a licensed facility for placement of the surveyor shall be done at the discretion 
of the licensing agency, except no licensed facility shall be required to accept 
more than two (2) placements in any calendar year.  Upon completion of said 
training, the surveyor shall not participate in a survey of the same licensed facility 
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of training placement.  Any 
costs associated with the placement of a surveyor for the purposes of this section 
shall be borne by the licensing agency.  The surveyor shall keep confidential and 
not disclose to any other persons any identifying information about any person or 
entity that the surveyor learned while observing operations as required by this 
section, except as otherwise mandated by law. 
1. This section shall apply to surveyors who have been employed by the licensing 
agency in a surveyor capacity for less than six (6) months, during which time the 
placement must be completed. 
2. This section shall not apply to surveyors who were previously employed by a 
licensed facility. 
3. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the surveyor from serving in such capacity for the licensing agency 
until a placement is completed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 778>>>
 
778 
  
Rule 47.11.4 Other Personnel.  All direct care employees shall be a minimum of 18 years of 
age, and shall have verification that they are not listed on the "Mississippi Nurses 
Aide Abuse Registry."  Personnel shall receive training on a quarterly basis on 
topics and issues related to the population being served in the licensed facility.  
Training shall be documented by a narrative of the content and signatures of those 
attending.  Personnel shall be employed and on duty, awake, and fully dressed to 
provide personal care to the residents.  The following staffing ratio shall apply: 
1. One (1) resident attendant per fifteen (15) or fewer residents for the hours of 7:00 
a.m. until 7:00 p.m. 
2. One (1) resident attendant per twenty-five (25) or fewer residents for the hours of 
7:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m.  There shall be designated, in writing and posted in a 
conspicuous place, on-call personnel in the event of an emergency, during this 
shift. 
3. Shall have a licensed nurse on the premises for eight (8) hours a day.  Licensed 
nurses, as required by this section, shall not be included in the resident attendant 
ratio. 
4. For instances where a resident is unable to self-administer prescription medication, 
a licensed nurse must be present to administer the prescription medication.  
5. Nursing activities must comply with Mississippi Board of Nursing regulations.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.5 Criminal History Record Checks.   
1. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity shall 
require to be preformed a disciplinary check with the professional licensing 
agency, if any,  for each employee to determine if any disciplinary action has been 
taken against the employee by the agency, and  a criminal history record check 
on:  
a. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care or 
services and who is employed on or after July 01, 2003, and 
b. Every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, who has 
documented disciplinary action by his or her present employer. 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired on or after July 
01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care until the results of the 
criminal history record check have revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver.  Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background check, any 
person may be employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary basis 
pending the results of the criminal history record check but any employment 
<<<PAGE 779>>>
 
779 
  
offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be voidable, if he/she 
receives a disqualifying criminal record check and no waiver is granted. 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a guilty plea; 
and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of the following 
crimes which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been 
granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be employed at the 
licensed facility: 
a. possession or sale of drugs 
b. murder 
c. manslaughter 
d. armed robbery 
e. rape 
f. sexual battery 
g. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23 (g), Mississippi Code of 1972 
h. child abuse 
i. arson 
j. grand larceny 
k. burglary   
l. gratification of lust 
m. aggravated assault 
n. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
o. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, with 
the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and evidence of 
submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on 
file and maintained by the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment.  The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification 
of the employee’s disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing 
agency and of submission and/or completion of the criminal record check, the 
signed affidavit, if applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment.  
4. Pursuant to Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency 
shall require every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, 
<<<PAGE 780>>>
 
780 
  
to sign an affidavit  stating that he or she does not have a criminal history as 
outlined in paragraph (3) above. 
5. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered entity hired before 
July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care unless the 
employee has signed an affidavit as   required by this section.  The covered entity 
shall place the affidavit in the employee’s personnel file as proof of compliance 
with this section.  
6. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is later determined that 
the person actually had been convicted of or pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to 
any of the offenses listed herein, and the conviction or pleas has not been reversed 
on appeal or a pardon has not been granted for the conviction or plea, the person 
is guilty of perjury as set out in Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972.  
The covered entity shall immediately institute termination proceedings against the 
employee pursuant to the facility’s policies and procedures. 
7. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable to sign the 
affidavit required by paragraph (7) of this subsection or any employee applicant 
aggrieved by the employment decision under this subsection to appear before the 
covered entity’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show mitigating 
circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or employee applicant to be 
employed at the covered entity.  The covered entity, upon report and 
recommendation of the hiring officer, may grant waivers for those mitigating 
circumstances, which shall include, but not be limited to: (1) age at which the 
crime was committed; (2) circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of time 
since the conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; 
(5) current employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to the health or 
safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
8. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the fingerprints a 
fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
9. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check reveal no 
disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) weeks of the 
notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee applicant with a 
notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the covered, or his or her 
authorized designee, confirming the employee applicant’s suitability for 
employment based on his or her criminal history record check.  An employee 
applicant may use that letter for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health without the necessity of an additional criminal record 
check.  Any covered entity presented with the letter may rely on the letter with 
respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background and is not required for a 
period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a 
criminal history record check as required in this subsection. 
<<<PAGE 781>>>
 
781 
  
10. For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct patient care as 
defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal history record 
check. 
11. Pursuant to Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency, 
the covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, attorneys and 
representatives,  shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any employment 
decision or action taken under this section.  The presumption of good faith may be 
overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil action.  No licensing 
agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, employees, attorneys and 
representatives shall be held liable in any employment discrimination suit in 
which an allegation of discrimination is made regarding an employment decision 
authorized under this section. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.6 Employee's Health Status. All licensed facility personnel shall receive a health 
screening by a licensed physician, a nurse practitioner/physician assistant, or a 
registered nurse prior to employment and annually thereafter. Records of this 
health screening shall be kept on file in the licensed facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.7 Employee Testing for Tuberculosis 
1.  Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to contact 
with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one of the 
following methods: 
 
a. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis by medical personnel; or 
 
b. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and read by a 
licensed medical/nursing person certified in the techniques of tuberculin 
testing and an evaluation of the individual for signs and symptoms of 
tuberculosis by a licensed Physician, Physician’s Assistant, Nurse 
Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may be 
administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no more than 
30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the individual must not 
be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of the RBIR where patients 
have access until receipt of the results of the IGRA/assessment or at least the 
first of the two-step Mantoux test has been administered/read and assessment 
for the signs and symptoms completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in millimeters. 
<<<PAGE 782>>>
 
782 
  
Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and assessment must be 
documented in accordance with accepted standards of medical/nursing 
practice and must be placed in the individual’s personnel file no later than 7 
days of the individual’s date of employment. If an IGRA is performed, results 
and quantitative values must be documented. 
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive Mantoux 
skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease (TB) that last 
longer than three weeks (regardless of the size of the skin test or results of 
the IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a board certified Radiologist 
and be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a licensed physician within 72 
hours. The employee shall not be allowed to work in any area where clients 
have routine access until evaluated by a physician/nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant and approved to return. Exceptions to this requirement may be made if 
the employee is asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation of 
having received a course of tuberculosis prophylactic therapy approved 
by the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) Tuberculosis 
Program for tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation of 
having received a course of multi-drug chemotherapy approved by the 
MSDH Tuberculosis Program; or 
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant tuberculin skin 
reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux testing  or 
the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and symptoms must be 
conducted and must be maintained as part of the employee’s annual health 
screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is NOT required unless symptoms of 
active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin test 
and a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of the two- 
step Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in the employees’ 
personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who has 
not been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test cannot be 
documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has documentation that 
the employee has had a negative TB skin test within the past 12 months, a 
single test performed thirty (30) days prior to employment or immediately upon 
hire will fulfill the two-step requirements. As above, the employee shall not 
have contact with clients or be allowed to work in areas of the RBIR to which 
<<<PAGE 783>>>
 
783 
  
clients have routine access prior to reading the skin test, completing a signs and 
symptoms assessment and documenting the results and findings. 
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease 
Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding baseline 
employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and education. 
Staff exposed to an active infectious case of tuberculosis shall be treated as 
contacts and be managed appropriately. Individuals found to have a 
significant Mantoux tuberculin skin test reaction and a chest x-ray not 
suggestive of active tuberculosis, shall be evaluated by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant for treatment of latent tuberculin infection. 
 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.8 Admission Agreement.  Prior to, or at the time of admission, the operator and the 
resident or the resident's responsible party shall execute in writing a financial 
agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed in two or more copies, 
one copy given to the resident or his/her responsible party, and one copy placed 
on file in the licensed facility. 
1. As a minimum, this agreement shall contain specifically: 
a. Basic charges agreed upon (room, board, laundry, and personal care). 
b. Period to be covered in the charges. 
c. Services for which special charges are made. 
d. Agreement regarding refunds for any payments made in advance. 
e. A statement that the operator shall make the resident's responsible party aware, 
in a timely manner, of any changes in resident's status, including those which 
require transfer and discharge; or operators who have been designated as a 
resident's responsible party shall ensure prompt and efficient action to meet 
resident's needs. 
2. No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee and the 
resident or his responsible agent which will relieve the licensee of the 
responsibility for the protection of the person and personal property of the 
individual admitted to the licensed facility for care. 
3. Any funds given or provided for the purpose of supplying services to any patient in 
any licensed facility, and any funds otherwise received and held from, for or on 
behalf of any such resident, shall be deposited by the director or other proper 
officer of the licensed facility to the credit of that patient in an account which 
shall be known as the Resident's Personal Deposit Fund.  No more than one (1) 
month charge for the care, support, maintenance, and medical attention of the 
<<<PAGE 784>>>
 
784 
  
patient shall be applied from such account at any one (1) time.  After the death, 
discharge, or transfer of any resident for whose benefit any such fund has been 
provided, any unexpended balance remaining in his personal deposit fund shall be 
applied for the payment of care, cost of support, maintenance, and medical 
attention which is accrued. In the event any unexpended balance remains in that 
resident's personal deposit fund after complete reimbursement has been made for 
payment of care, support, maintenance, and medical attention, and the director or 
other proper officer of the licensed facility has been or shall be unable to locate 
the person or persons entitled to such unexpended balance, the director or other 
proper officer may, after the lapse of one (1) year from the date of such death, 
discharge, or transfer, deposit the unexpended balance to the credit of the licensed 
facility's operating fund. 
4. The resident or his responsible party shall be furnished a receipt signed by the 
licensee of the licensed facility or his lawful agent, for all sums of money paid to 
the licensed facility. 
5. Written notification shall be given to the resident/responsible party when basic 
charges and/or licensed facility policies change. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.9 Records and Reports.The operator shall maintain a record of the residents for 
whom he or she serves as the conservator or a representative payee.  This record 
shall include evidence of the means by which the conservatorship or 
representative payee relationship was established and evidence of separate 
accounts in a bank for each resident whose conservator or representative payee is 
the operator of the licensed facility. 
1. Inspection reports from the licensing agency, any branch or division thereof by the 
operator in the licensed facility, and submitted to the licensing agency as required, 
or when requested. 
2. Resident records shall contain the following: 
a. Admission agreement(s) and financial statements. 
b. Residents' rights and licensed facility’s rules, signed, dated, and witnessed. 
c. Medical evaluation and referral from physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant. 
d. Current medication record, including any reactions to such medication. 
e. Social services and activity contacts. 
f. General information form. 
<<<PAGE 785>>>
 
785 
  
g. Representative payee statement, if applicable. 
h. Physician orders or nurse practitioner/physician assistant orders (including, but 
not limited to, therapies, diets, medications, etc.) and medication administration 
records. 
3. The records as described in this section shall be made available to the resident, the 
resident’s family, or other responsible party for the resident upon reasonable 
request. 
4. The facility shall report and comply with the annual MDH TB Program 
surveillance procedures.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.10 Licensed Facility Policies.  Written policies shall be available which indicate 
services to be provided, and which include policies regarding admission, transfer 
and discharge of residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.11.11 Residents' Rights.  These rights and licensed facility rules must be in writing and 
be made available to all residents, employees, sponsors, and posted for public 
viewing.  Each resident shall: 
1. Have the right to attend religious and other activities of his/her choice. 
2. Have the right to manage his/her personal financial affairs, or is given at least a 
quarterly accounting of financial transactions made on his/her behalf should the 
facility accept the written delegation from the resident or from his/her responsible 
party of this responsibility to the facility for any period of time in conformance 
with State law. 
3. Not be required to perform services for the licensed facility. 
4. Have the right to communicate with persons of his/her choice, and may receive 
mail unopened or in compliance with the policies of the home. 
5. Be treated with consideration, kindness, respect, and full recognition of his/her 
dignity and individually. 
6. May retain and use personal clothing and possessions as space permits. 
7. May voice grievances and recommend changes in licensed facility policies and 
services. 
<<<PAGE 786>>>
 
786 
  
8. Shall not be confined to the licensed facility against his/her will, and shall be 
allowed to move about in the community at liberty.  Physical and/or chemical 
restraints are prohibited. 
9. Not be limited in his/her choice of a pharmacy or pharmacist provider in 
accordance with State law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 12 MEDICAL AND PERSONAL CARE SERVICES 
Rule 47.12.1 Admission and Discharge Criteria.  The following criteria must be applied and 
maintained for resident placement in a licensed facility: 
1. Only residents whose needs can be met by the licensed facility shall be admitted.  
An appropriate resident is primarily an aged ambulatory person who requires 
domiciliary care and who may require non-medical services, medical services 
such as medication assistance, emergency response services, and home health 
services as prescribed by a physician’s order and as allowed by law. 
2. A person shall not be admitted or continue to reside in an licensed facility if the 
person: 
a. Requires physical restraints; 
b. Poses a serious threat to himself or herself or others; 
c. Requires nasopharyngeal and/or tracheotomy suctioning; 
d. Requires gastric feedings; 
e. Requires intravenous fluids, medications, or feedings; 
f. Requires a indwelling urinary catheter; 
g. Requires sterile wound care; or 
h. Requires treatment of decubitus ulcer or exfoliative dermatitis. 
3. Licensed facilities which are not accessible to individuals with disabilities through 
the A.N.S.I. Standards as they relate to facility accessibility may not accept 
wheelchair bound residents.  Only those persons who, in an emergency, would be 
physically and mentally capable of traveling to safety may be accepted. For 
multilevel facilities, no residents may be placed above the ground floor level that 
are unable to descend the stairs unassisted. 
4. The licensed facility must be able to identify at the time of admission and during 
continued stay those residents whose needs for services are consistent with these 
<<<PAGE 787>>>
 
787 
  
rules and regulations, and those residents who should be transferred to an 
appropriate level of care. 
5. Notwithstanding any determination by the licensing agency that skilled nursing 
services would be appropriate for a resident of a personal care home, that resident, 
the resident’s guardian, or the legally recognized responsible party for the resident 
may consent in writing for the resident to continue to reside in the personal care 
home, if approved in writing by a licensed physician.  Provided, however, that no 
personal care home shall allow more than two (2) residents, or ten percent (10%) 
of number of residents in the facility, whichever is greater, to remain in the 
personal care home under the provisions herein.  This consent shall be deemed to 
be appropriately informed consent as described by these regulations.  After that 
written consent has been obtained, the resident shall have the right to continue to 
reside in the personal care home for as long as the resident meets the other 
conditions for residing in the personal care home.  A copy of the written consent 
and the physician’s approval shall be forwarded by the personal care home to the 
licensing agency within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the latter of the two (2) 
documents. 
6. The licensed facility which accepts and admits residents requiring mental health 
services shall help arrange transportation to mental health appointments and 
cooperate with the community mental health center or other provider of mental 
health care, as necessary, to ensure access to and the coordination of care, within 
limits of the confidentiality and privacy rights of the individual receiving services.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.12.2 Medical Evaluation.  Each person applying for admission to a licensed facility 
shall be given a thorough examination by a licensed physician or certified nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant within thirty (30) days prior to admission. The 
examination shall indicate the appropriateness of admission, according to the 
above criteria, to a licensed facility with an annual update by a physician and/or 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.12.3 Tuberculosis (TB):  Admission Requirements to Rule out Active Tuberculosis 
(TB) 
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior to the 
resident’s admission to the licensed facility: 
a. TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant or a Licensed Nurse Practitioner, and 
b. A chest x-ray taken and have a written interpretation. 
<<<PAGE 788>>>
 
788 
  
2. Admission to the facility shall be based on the results of the required tests as 
follows: 
a.  Residents with an abnormal chest x-ray and/or signs and symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test 
(TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA (blood test) drawn 
and results documented within 30 days prior to the patient’s admission to the 
licensed facility.  Evaluation for active TB shall be at the recommendation of 
the MSDH and shall be prior to admission.  If TB is ruled out  and the first step 
of the TST is negative, the second step of the two-step TST shall be completed 
and documented within 10-21 days of admission.  TST administration and 
reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, 
TST (first and/or second step) is not done. 
b. Residents with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or symptoms of TB shall 
have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with the initial 
step of a the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 days prior to the 
day of admission.  IF TST is done, the second step shall be completed within 
10-21 days of the first step.  TST administration and reading shall be done by 
certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, a TST is not done (first or 
second step). 
c. Residents with a significant TST OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall be 
monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB (cough, sputum 
production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night sweats, especially if the 
symptoms have lasted longer than three weeks) and if these symptoms develop, 
shall have an evaluation for TB per the recommendations of the MSDH within 
72 hours.  
d. Residents with a non significant TST or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual tuberculosis testing within thirty (30) days 
of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing is used, IGRA 
testing should continue to be used rather than TST testing. 
e. Residents with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood test) 
on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse practitioner or 
physician or physician’s assistant.   
g. Active or suspected Active TB Admission.  If a resident has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission to the facility is required 
from the MSDH TB State Medical Consultant. 
h. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
i. Resident has prior documentation of a significant TST/positive IGRA. 
<<<PAGE 789>>>
 
789 
  
ii. Resident has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment regimen for 
latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
iii. Resident is excluded by a licensed physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant due to medical contraindications. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.12.4 Transfer to another facility or return of a resident to respite care shall be 
based on the above tests (Rule 47.12.3) if done within the past 12 months and the 
patient has no signs and symptoms of TB. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.12.5 Disease Prevention. By September 1st of each year and in accordance with the 
latest recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, each Personal Care Home, both 
Assisted Living and Residential, shall provide residents educational information 
on Influenza disease. This educational information shall include, but need not be 
limited to, the risks associated with influenza disease, the availability, 
effectiveness and known contraindications of the influenza immunization, causes 
and symptoms of influenza and the means by which influenza is spread. (All 
information is free and available from the CDC website).  Nothing in this 
provision shall require any Residential or Assisted Living Facility to provide or 
pay for any vaccination against influenza 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.12.6 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office.  If a resident has signs or 
symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the facility shall notify the MSDH, 
the hospital, transporting staff and the physician’s office prior to transferring the 
resident to a hospital.  Appropriate isolation and evaluation shall be the 
responsibility of the hospital and physician.  If a resident has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission or readmission to the facility 
is required from the MSDH TB State Consultant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 13 FOOD SERVICE 
Rule 47.13.1 Meals.  The licensed facility shall provide residents with well-planned, attractive, 
and satisfying meals at least three (3) times daily, seven (7) days a week, which 
will meet their nutritional, social, emotional and therapeutic needs.  The daily food 
allowance shall meet the current recommended dietary allowances. 
1. Meals shall be planned one (1) week in advance.  A record of meals served shall be 
maintained for a one (1) month period.  Current menus must be posted and dated. 
<<<PAGE 790>>>
 
790 
  
2. A record of all food purchases shall be maintained in the licensed facility for a one 
(1) month period. 
3. All food served in licensed facilities shall comply with the following: 
a. No game or home canned foods shall be served; 
b. Other than fresh or frozen vegetables and fruit, all foods must be from 
commercial sources. 
c. All meals for residents who require therapeutic diets shall be planned by a 
Licensed Dietitian.  If a therapeutic diet is prescribed by the physician for the 
resident, the licensed dietitian shall visit the licensed facility at a minimum of 
once every thirty (30) days, and shall file a consulting report with the licensed 
facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.13.2 Physical Facilities.  
1. A licensed facility with sixteen (16) or more residents shall obtain a Food Service 
Permit from the Mississippi State Department of Health.  
2. A licensed facility with fifteen (15) or fewer residents shall meet the requirements 
as set forth in the Facility Inspection Report issued by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.13.3 Dietary Staffing.  
1. Licensed facilities shall have an employee dedicated to meal preparation and food 
service. 
2. All employees engaged in handling, preparation and/or serving of food shall wear 
clean clothing at all times. 
3. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wear hair nets, 
head bands, or caps to prevent the falling of hair. 
4. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wash their 
hands thoroughly before starting to work and immediately after contact with any 
soiled matter. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 14 DRUG HANDLING 
<<<PAGE 791>>>
 
791 
  
Rule 47.14.1 Restrictions.  Licensed facilities shall meet Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy 
requirements for the storage and dispensing of prescription medications, whenever 
applicable. Resident requiring administration of Schedule II Narcotics as defined 
in the Uniform Controlled Substances Law may be admitted to a personal care 
home.  Schedule drugs may only be allowed in a personal care home if they are 
administered or stored utilizing proper procedures under the direct supervision of a 
licensed physician or nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.14.2 Labeling.  The medications of all residents shall be clearly labeled. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.14.3 Storage of Prescription Medications.  Proper storage of all prescription 
medications shall be provided. 
1. All residents' prescription medications shall be stored in a secured area.  The area 
shall be kept locked when not in use, with responsibility for the key designated in 
writing. 
2. The prescription medication storage area shall be well-lighted, well-ventilated, and 
kept in a clean and orderly fashion.  The temperature of the medication storage 
area should not exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit at any time. 
3. A refrigerator shall be provided for the storage of prescription medications 
requiring refrigeration.  If the refrigerator houses food or beverages, the residents’ 
prescription medications shall be stored in a covered container or separate 
compartment.  All refrigerators shall be equipped with thermometers. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.14.4 Responsibility. A non-resident employee, appointed by the operator, shall be 
responsible for the following: 
1. Storage of prescription medications. 
2. Keeping a current prescription medication list, including frequency and dosage, 
which shall be updated at least every thirty (30) days, or with any significant 
change. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.14.5 Disposal of Unused Prescription Medications.  In the event any prescription 
medication is no longer in use for any reason, it shall be disposed of in accordance 
with the regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 792>>>
 
792 
  
Rule 47.14.6 SOCIAL SERVICES:  The licensed facility shall make provisions for referring 
residents with social and emotional needs to an appropriate social services 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 15 RESIDENT ACTIVITIES 
Rule 47.15.1 Activities Program.  An activities program shall be in effect which is appropriate 
to the needs and interests of each resident. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.15.2 Adequate and activity-appropriate space shall be provided for the various resident 
activities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.15.3 Activities shall be provided on daily basis. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.15.4 Available community resources shall be utilized in the activities program. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.15.5 Supplies shall be available to implement an adequate activities program. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.15.6 A non-resident employee shall be responsible for the activities program. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 16 PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
Rule 47.16.1 Required Areas/Rooms.  The following areas/rooms are required to be provided 
in a licensed facility: 
1. Bedrooms; 
2. Living room; 
3. Dining Area; 
4. Toilet and bathing facilities: 
5. Laundry; and 
<<<PAGE 793>>>
 
793 
  
6. Kitchen. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.2 Bedrooms. 
1. Location.:  All resident bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be 
below grade.  Window areas shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the floor 
area.  The window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches from the floor.  
Windows shall be operable. 
a. Resident bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of unpleasant 
odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
b. Resident bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor.  In no 
case shall a resident bedroom be used for access to another resident bedroom 
nor shall a resident bedroom be used for access to a required outside exit. 
c. All resident bedrooms shall be so located that the resident can travel from 
his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or toilet or bathing 
facility without having to go through another resident bedroom. 
d. Resident bedrooms shall house no more than four (4) persons each. 
2. Furnishings. 
a. Single beds shall be provided with good grade mattresses at least four (4) inches 
thick.  Cots and roll-away beds shall not be used. 
b. Each bed shall be equipped with a pillow and clean linens to include sheets, 
pillow cases, spreads and blankets.  An adequate supply of such linens shall be 
provided at all times to allow for a change of linen at least once a week. 
c. Chest of drawers or similar adequate storage space shall be provided for the 
clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings of each resident. 
d. Adequate closet space shall be provided for each resident. 
e. An adequate number of comfortable, sturdy chairs shall be provided. 
f. At least one (1) mirror, a minimum of 18" x 24", shall be provided in each 
bedroom. 
g. The opportunity for personal expression shall be permitted. 
h. A resident shall be permitted to use personal furnishings in lieu of those 
provided by the licensed facility, when practical. 
3. Floor Area.  Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be 80 square feet. 
<<<PAGE 794>>>
 
794 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.3 Living Room.  Living rooms, daybooks, and/or recreation rooms shall be provided 
for resident and visitors.  Each licensed facility shall provide at least two (2) areas 
for this purpose:  one (1) for small groups such as a private visit with relatives and 
friends; and one (1) for larger group activities.  The living room must be equipped 
with attractive, functional, and comfortable furniture in sufficient number to 
accommodate all residents.  A minimum of 18 square feet per bed shall be 
provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.4 Dining Area.  A dining area shall be provided which shall be adequate to seat all 
residents at the same meal seating.  The dining area may also be used for social, 
recreational, and/or religious services when not in use as a dining facility.  A 
minimum of 15 square feet per bed shall be provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.5 Toilet and Bathing Facilities. 
1. Separate toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided, on each floor, for each sex 
in the following ratios as a minimum. 
a. Bathtubs/showers 1 per 12 or fraction thereof for each sex 
b. Lavatories  1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
c. Toilets   1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
2. A lavatory with mirror shall be provided in each toilet room or bedroom. 
3. Bathtubs and showers shall be equipped with grab bars, towel racks and non-glass 
shower enclosures.  Commodes shall be equipped with grab bars. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.6 Laundry.  Laundry facilities shall be provided unless commercial laundries are 
used. 
1. The laundry shall be located in a specifically designated area, and there shall be 
adequate room and space for sorting, processing and storage of soiled material.  
Laundry rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall not open directly into a 
resident's bedroom or food service area.  Soiled materials shall not be transported 
through the food service area.  The laundry area shall be kept clean and orderly. 
2. If commercial laundry is used, separate satisfactory storage areas shall be provided 
for clean and soiled linens. 
<<<PAGE 795>>>
 
795 
  
3. Provisions shall be made for proper mechanical ventilation of the laundry. 
4. Provisions shall also be made to prevent the recirculation of air through the heating 
and air-conditioning systems. 
5. Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for dryers. 
6. When laundry chutes are provided, they shall have a minimum diameter of two (2) 
feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and drain. 
7. An automatic sprinkler shall be provided at the top of the laundry chute and in any 
receiving room for a chute. 
8. A self-closing door shall be provided at the bottom of the chute. 
9. Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately perform the laundry needs of 
the facility.  The equipment shall be installed to comply with all local and state 
codes. 
10. There shall be a separate and designated area for the storage of clean linen. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.16.7 Kitchen.  In facilities with 16 or more residents, commercial cooking equipment 
must comply with NFPA 96, “Standard for Ventilation Control and Protection of 
Commercial Cooking Operations”.  Licensed existing facilities shall be permitted 
to maintain and utilize existing equipment that is in service. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 17 PHYSICAL PLANT:  GENERAL 
Rule 47.17.1 Licensed Facility Classification.:  To qualify for a license, the facility shall be 
planned to serve the type of residents to be admitted and shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.2 Location.  All facilities and licensed facilities shall be located so that they are 
free from undue noise, smoke, dust, or foul odors and shall not be located 
adjacent to disposal plants, railroad tracks, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.3 Site.  The proposed site for facility must be approved by the licensing agency.  
Factors to be considered in approving a site shall be convenient to medical and 
hospital services, approved water supply and sewage disposal, public 
transportation, community services, services of an organized fire department, and 
availability to labor supply.  Not more than one-third (1/3) of a site shall be 
<<<PAGE 796>>>
 
796 
  
covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the licensing agency.  One 
example whereby approval may be granted is where the structure is to be placed 
in a very desirable location where the grounds are limited and very expensive.  
Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have a living 
room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate for 
lack of required outside area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.4 Local Restrictions.  The site and structure of all licensed facilities shall comply 
with local building, fire, and zoning ordinances.  Proof of compliance shall be 
submitted to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.5 Transportation.  Licensed facilities shall be located on streets or roads which are 
passable at all times.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.6 Communications.  There shall be not less than one telephone in the licensed 
facility and such additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in the 
event of fire or other emergency.  The telephone shall be listed under the official 
licensed name or title of the licensed facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.7 Occupancy.  No part of the licensed facility may be rented, leased, or used for any 
purpose not related to the operation of the licensed facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.17.8 Basement.:  The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or more 
of its clear height is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining the 
building on all sides.  No resident shall be housed on any floor that is below 
ground level. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 18 SUBMISSIONS OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS, EFFECTIVE 
AUGUST 13, 2005 
Rule 47.18.1 Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which 
do not affect the structural integrity of the building, change functional operation, 
affect fire safety, or affect the license bed capacity, do not need to have plans 
submitted for review provided that a detailed explanation of the proposed 
alteration or remodeling is submitted to and approved by the licensing agency. 
<<<PAGE 797>>>
 
797 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.2 First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans.  First stage or preliminary plans 
shall include: 
1. Plot plan showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed building and 
any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroads, etc., all 
properly designated; and size, characteristics, and location of all existing public 
utilities. 
2. Floor plan showing over-all dimensions of building(s); location, size, and purpose 
of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other openings with 
swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of all corridors and hallways; and 
location of stairs, elevators, dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
3. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.3 Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications. 
1. Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include: 
a. Architectural drawings 
b. Structural drawings 
c. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
d. Electrical drawings 
e. Detailed specifications 
2. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual construction. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.4 Preparation of Plans and Specifications.  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.5 Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
<<<PAGE 798>>>
 
798 
  
licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.6 Notification of Start of Construction.  The licensing agency shall be informed 
in writing at the time construction is begun. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.7 Inspections.  The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to the work for inspection whenever it is in preparation or 
progress, and the owner shall ascertain that proper facilities are made available for 
such access and inspection. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.8 Limit of Approval.  In construction delayed for a period of exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a new 
evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.18.9 Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal.  The water supply and sewerage 
disposal shall be approved by the local county health department and/or the 
Division of Sanitary Engineering, Mississippi State Department of Health.  No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall be 
installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended until 
complete plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have 
been so approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and final 
determination. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 19   GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 47.19.1 Structural Soundness and Repair.  The building shall be structurally sound, free 
from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at sufficient 
intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out.  Walls and ceilings of 
hazardous areas shall be one (1) hour fire resistance rating. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.2 Heating and Cooling Systems.  Adequate heating and cooling systems shall be 
provided to maintain inside temperature between 68 degrees Fahrenheit and 78 
degrees Fahrenheit depending on the season. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 799>>>
 
799 
  
Rule 47.19.3 Lighting.  Each resident's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum brightness of ten (10) foot 
candles of lighting for general use in residents' rooms and a minimum brightness of 
thirty (30) foot candles of lighting for reading purposes.  All entrances, hallways, 
stairways, ramps, cellars, attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and service units 
shall have sufficient artificial lighting to prevent accidents and promote efficiency 
of service.  Night lights shall be provided in all hallways, stairways, toilets, and 
bathing rooms. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.4 Emergency Lighting.  At least one functioning, battery-operated emergency light 
shall be provided in each hallway. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.5 Screens.  All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with 
tight fitting, full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out 
and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.6 Floors.  All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks, and shall 
be finished so that they can be easily cleaned.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.7 Walls and Ceilings.  All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction, with an 
acceptable surface, and shall be maintained in good repair. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.8 Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least seven (7) feet, except 
that a height of six (6) feet six (6) inches may be approved for hallways or toilets 
and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.9 Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of residents, 
shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in ten (10) feet of run, shall be furnished with a 
non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both sides. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.10 Door Swing.  Exit doors, other than from a living unit, shall swing in the director 
of exit from the structure. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 800>>>
 
800 
  
Rule 47.19.11 Floor Levels.  All differences in floor levels within the building shall be 
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) six-inch risers, ramps, or inclines, 
and shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.12 Space Under Stairs.  Space under stairs shall not be used for storage purposes.  
All walls and doors shall meet the same fire rating as the stairwell. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.13 Interior Finish and Floor Coverings.  Interior finish and decorative material 
shall be not less than Class B and floor covering shall have a flame spread not to 
exceed 75. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.14 Fire Extinguishers.  Fire extinguishers of number, type, and capacity appropriate 
to the need shall be provided for each floor and for special fire hazard areas such 
as kitchen, laundry, and mechanical room.  All extinguishers shall be of a type 
approved by the licensing agency.  A vaporizing liquid extinguisher (such as 
carbon tetrachloride) will not be approved for use inside the building.  
Extinguishers shall be inspected and serviced periodically as recommended by the 
manufacturer.  The date of inspection shall be entered on a tag attached to the 
extinguisher and signed by a reliable inspector such as the local fire chief or 
representative of a fire extinguisher servicing company. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.15 Smoke Detectors.  Smoke detectors shall be installed in each hallway no more 
than thirty (30) feet apart, in all bedrooms and in all storage rooms.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.16 Trash Chutes.  Trash chutes are prohibited. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.17 Housekeeping and Maintenance.  The interior and exterior of the licensed 
facility shall be maintained in an attractive, safe and sanitary condition. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.18 Pest Control.  Pest control inspections and, if necessary, treatments, shall be 
made to control pests, vermin, insects and rodents, at a minimum of once every 
thirty (30) days, by a company that is licensed by the State of Mississippi.  The 
licensing agency may, in its discretion, require more frequent inspections and 
<<<PAGE 801>>>
 
801 
  
treatments.  The inspection and treatment reports shall be maintained at the 
licensed facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.19 Water Temperature.  The temperature of hot water at plumbing fixtures used by 
residents shall not exceed 115 degrees Fahrenheit and no less than 100 degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.19.20 Combustion Air.  Combustion air to all equipment requiring it must come from 
the outside. 
 SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 20  BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 47.20.1 Building Protection.  Facilities licensed after August 13, 2005 shall be 
constructed to have:   
1. Building Protection 
a. Automatic Sprinklers Required.  Facilities licensed after the effective date of 
these regulations shall be protected throughout by a supervised automatic 
sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current edition of NFPA 13, 
Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 
b. In facilities licensed for sixteen (16) or fewer residents and where the 
characteristics of occupancy are comparable with one (1) and two (2) family 
residential fire potentials, an NFPA 13D-styled sprinkler system may be 
installed. 
2. Building Construction. 
a. Single story.  No requirements 
b. Multi-story (less than four floors).  One hour fire resistance rating as prescribed 
by the current edition of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 
Standard 220, types of Building Construction. (Example: Type II (111), or Type 
V (111). 
c. Mobile structures.  No mobile structures are acceptable for housing residents. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 802>>>
 
802 
  
Rule 47.20.2 Multi-story Building. Elevator Required.  No resident shall be housed in a 
building three stories and above unless the building is equipped with an elevator.  
The minimum cab size of the elevator shall be approximately six (6) feet eight (8) 
inches by five (5) feet and constructed of metal.  The width of the shaft door shall 
be at least three (3) feet six (6) inches.  The load weight capacity shall not be less 
than 2,500 pounds.  The elevator shaft shall be enclosed by construction of not 
less than a two-hour fire resistive rating.  Elevators shall not be counted as 
required exits. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.20.3 Hazardous Areas and Combustible Storage.  Heating apparatus and boiler and 
furnace rooms, basements, or attics used for the storage of combustible material 
and workrooms, shall be classified as hazardous areas and shall be separated from 
other areas by construction having a fire resistive rating of at least one (1) hour. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.20.4 Stairs.  Stairs shall be enclosed with at least one-hour fire rated construction. 
1. Handrails shall be provided on both sides of the stairs. 
2. The width of the stairs shall not be less than forty-four (44) inches. 
3. The stairs shall be well lighted at all times. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.20.5 Exit Doors.  Exit doors shall meet the following: 
1. At least two (2) remotely located exits shall be provided for each occupied story of 
a facility. 
2. Dead end hallways in excess of twenty (20) feet are not allowed. 
3. Doors to the exterior shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide and egress 
shall not be impeded by being locked. 
4. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct the travel along 
any required exit. 
5. Doors leading to stairways shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide. 
6. Revolving doors shall not be used as required exits. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.20.6 Hallways and Passageways. 
<<<PAGE 803>>>
 
803 
  
1. Hallways and passageways shall be kept unobstructed. 
2. Hallways and passageways which lead to the outside from any required stairway 
shall be enclosed as required for stairways. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.20.7 Mechanical and Electric Systems.  Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, 
air-conditioning, and water systems installed shall meet the requirements of local 
codes and ordinances as well as the applicable regulation of the licensing agency.  
Where there are no local codes or ordinances, the following codes and 
recommendations shall govern: 
1. National Electrical Code. 
2. National Plumbing Code. 
3. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers, Inc. 
4. Recommendations of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
5. Recommendations of American Gas Association. 
6. National Fire Protection Association.  The heating of licensed facilities shall be 
restricted to steam, hot water, or warm air systems employing central heating 
plants, or Underwriters Laboratories approved electric heating.  The use of 
portable heaters of any kind is prohibited with the following exceptions: 
7. Gas heaters provided they meet all of the following: 
a. A circulating type with a recessed enclosed flame so designed that clothing or 
other inflammable material cannot be ignited. 
b. Equipped with a safety pilot light. 
c. Properly vented to the outside. 
d. Approved by American Gas Association or Underwriters Laboratories. 
8. An approved type of electrical heater such as wall insert type. 
9. Lighting (except for battery-operated emergency lighting) shall be restricted to 
electricity. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 21 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)  
<<<PAGE 804>>>
 
804 
  
Rule 47.21.1 The Licensed Entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan 
utilizing the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The 
plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of terrorism or 
man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. 
The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP),  will be reviewed by the 
Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department 
of Health, or their designates, for conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specified 
EOP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) critical areas of consideration are:  
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP. 
2. Resources and Assets 
3. Safety and Security 
4. Staffing 
5. Utilities  
6. Clinical Activities 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 47.21.2 Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed  annually or 
as directed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and  Response.  Written 
evidence of current approval or review of provider  EOPs, by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall  accompany all applications for 
facility license renewals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 22   FACILITY FIRE PREPAREDNESS  
Rule 47.22.1 Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year.  Written Records.  
Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating content of and 
attendance at each drill.  A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in 
a conspicuous place and kept current. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
CHAPTER 48 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PERSONAL CARE HOMES 
RESIDENTIAL LIVING 
<<<PAGE 805>>>
 
805 
  
Subchapter 1   GENERAL:  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 48.1.1. Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi as per Section 
43-11-13 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, the Mississippi State 
Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the following Rules, 
Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Personal Care Homes - Residential 
Living.  Upon adoption of these Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards, all 
former rules, regulations and minimum standards in conflict therewith, previously 
adopted by the licensing agency, are hereby repealed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.1.2. Codes and Ordinances.  Every licensed facility located inside the boundaries of 
a municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and ordinances 
applicable thereto.  In addition, each licensed facility shall comply with all 
applicable state and federal laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.1.3. Fire Safety.  No facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the safety 
regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and detection of fire as 
well as for protection of life and property against fire. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.1.4. Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable 
deaths, or avoidable, serious, or life-threatening injuries to residents resulting 
from fires, explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the 
Life Safety Code Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after 
the occurrence. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2   DEFINITIONS 
Rule 48.2.1. Ambulation.  The terms “ambulation” or “ambulatory” shall mean the resident’s 
ability to bear weight, pivot, and safely walk independently or with the use of a 
cane, walker, or other mechanical supportive device (i.e., including, but not 
limited to, a wheelchair).  A resident who requires a wheelchair must be capable 
of transferring to and propelling the wheelchair independently or with prompting. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.2. Assisted Living.  The term “assisted living” shall mean the provision of personal 
care and the addition of supplemental services to include, but not be limited to, 
the provision of  medical services (i.e., medication procedures and medication 
administration), and emergency response services. 
<<<PAGE 806>>>
 
806 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.3. Criminal History Record Checks.  
1. Affidavit.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, the term “affidavit” means the use of Mississippi State Department of 
Health (MSDH) Form #210, or a copy thereof, which shall be placed in the 
individual’s personal file. 
2. Employee.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a licensed entity.  The 
term “employee”, also includes any individual who by contract with the facility 
provides patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or in treatment 
rooms. 
a. The term employee does not include healthcare professional/technical students, 
as defined in Section 37-29-232 of the Miss. Code of 1972, performing clinical 
training in a licensed entity under contracts between their schools and the 
licensed entity, and does not include students at high schools who observe the 
treatment and care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the requirements of 
an allied health course taught in the school if: 
i. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; and 
ii. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school 
stating that he or she has been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo 
contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sexual offenses 
listed in section 45-33-23 (g) of the Miss. Code of 1972, child abuse, 
arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or 
felonious abuse and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such 
conviction or plea was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the 
conviction or plea. 
iii. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 of the 
Miss. Code of 1972 are exempt from application of the term employee 
under Section 43-11-13 of the Miss. Code of 1972. 
3. Covered Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered 
entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional staffing agency. 
4. Licensed Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, home 
health agency or hospice. 
<<<PAGE 807>>>
 
807 
  
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program.  For the 
purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care professional/vocational 
technical academic program” means an academic program in medicine, nursing, 
dentistry, occupational therapy, physical therapy, social services, speech therapy, 
or other allied-health professional whose purpose is to prepare professionals to 
render patient care services. 
6. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student.  For purposes of 
criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a healthcare 
professional/vocational technical academic program. 
7. Direct Patient Care or Services.  For the purposes of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means direct hands-on 
medical patient care and services provided by an individual in a patient, resident 
or client’s room, treatment room or recovery room. Individuals providing direct 
patient care may be directly employed by the facility or employed on a 
contractual basis. 
8. Documented Disciplinary Action.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary action” 
means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.4. Facility.  The term “facility” shall mean any home or institution that (1) has 
sought or is currently seeking designation as a “licensed facility” under the terms 
of these regulations; or (2) is  operating a home or institution unlawfully which, 
by its nature and operational intent, is required to be a licensed facility under the 
terms of these regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.5. Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A situation 
in which the licensed facility’s failure to meet one or more regulatory 
requirements has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, 
or death to a resident. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.6. IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s).  A whole blood test used in to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection.   The IGRA blood 
test used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.7. Licensing Agency.  The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi State 
Department of Health. 
<<<PAGE 808>>>
 
808 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.8. Licensed Facility.  The term “licensed facility” shall mean any personal care 
home for residential living which has been issued a license for operation by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.9. Mantoux Test.  A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one-tenth 
(0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative-tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm with 
a needle and syringe.  The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and seventy-
two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to the size of 
the induration.  The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on 
the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition for significant 
tuberculin skin test.  This test is used to evaluate the likelihood that a person is 
infected with M. tuberculosis.  It is the most reliable and standardized technique 
for tuberculin testing.  It should be administered only by persons certified in the 
intradermal technique. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.10. Medication Assistance.  For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
“medication assistance” is any form of delivering medication which has been 
prescribed which is not defined as “medication administration” including, but not 
limited to, the physical act of handing an oral prescription medication to the 
patient along with liquids to assist the patient in swallowing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.11. Personal Care.  The term "personal care" shall mean the assistance rendered by 
personnel of the licensed facility to residents in performing one or more of the 
activities of daily living, including but not limited to bathing, walking, excretory 
functions, feeding, personal grooming, and dressing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.12. Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters or 
greater is significant (or positive) in the following: 
1. Persons known to have or suspected of having human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). 
2. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
3. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous tuberculosis. 
4. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown). 
<<<PAGE 809>>>
 
809 
  
5. An induration of ten (10) millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all 
other persons tested in Mississippi.  A tuberculin skin test is recorded in 
millimeters of induration.  For accurate results, measure the widest diameter of 
the palpable induration transverse (across) the arm. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.13. Residential Living.  The term “residential living” shall mean the provision of 
services to individuals who require personal care services or individuals, who due 
to functional impairments, may require mental health services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.14. Surveyor.  The term "surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on a 
contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting surveys, 
inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the licensing 
agency’s responsibilities for licensure and regulation of institutions for the aged 
and infirm. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.2.15. Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who will 
periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to reduce the 
likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If the initial 
tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated one (1) to 
three (3) weeks later.  If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably 
represents a boosted reaction.  If the second test is also negative, the person is 
classified as not infected.  A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate 
new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3    PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT 
Rule 48.3.1. Authority.  The licensing agency shall have the power to adopt, amend, 
promulgate and enforce such rules, regulations and minimum standards as it 
deems appropriate, within the law. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4     INSPECTION 
Rule 48.4.1. Inspections Required.  Each licensed facility shall be inspected by the licensing 
agency or by persons delegated with authority by said licensing agency at such 
intervals as the licensing agency may direct.  The licensing agency and/or its 
authorized representatives shall have the right to inspect construction work in 
progress.  New facilities shall not be licensed without having first been inspected 
for compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
<<<PAGE 810>>>
 
810 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 5     CLASSIFICATION 
Rule 48.5.1. Personal Care Home - Residential Living.  The terms “Personal Care Home - 
Residential Living” and “Residential Personal Care Home” shall mean any place 
or facility operating 24 hours a day, seven (7) days a week, accepting individuals 
who require personal care services or individuals, who due to functional 
impairments, may require mental health services to compensate for activities of 
daily living. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.5.2. Personal Care Home - Assisted Living.  The terms “Personal Care Home - 
Assisted Living” and “Assisted Living Personal Care Home” shall mean any 
place or facility operating 24 hours a day, seven (7) days a week, accepting 
individuals who require assisted living services as governed by the regulations 
herein. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6  TYPES OF LICENSE 
Rule 48.6.1. Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each facility that meets the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.6.2. Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the licensing agency may be issued 
only if the licensing agency is satisfied that preparations are being made to qualify 
for regular license and that the health and safety of residents will not be 
endangered. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 7    APPLICATION OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE 
Rule 48.7.1.  Application. Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency, on forms provided by the licensing agency, which 
shall contain such information as the licensing agency may require. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.7.2. Fees 
1. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount set by the Board, made payable to 
the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by check, money order, or 
<<<PAGE 811>>>
 
811 
  
electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable.  
2.   Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a user fee, in an amount 
set by the Board, and shall be made payable, either by check, money order, or 
electronic means, to the Mississippi State Department of Health, when it is 
required to review and/or inspect the proposal of any licensed facility in which 
there are additions, renovations, modernizations, expansions, alterations, 
conversions, modifications, or replacements. Fees are non-refundable.  
3. Should all documentation appropriate for license renewal not be received by 
Mississippi State Department of Health, Division of Health Facilities Licensure 
and Certification on or prior to the expiration date of the license, a late fee in an 
amount set by the Board, will be assessed and must be submitted payable by 
business check, money order, or electronic means, to the Mississippi State 
Department of Health prior to the issuance of a license.  Should all paperwork 
necessary for renewal not be submitted within 30 days post-expiration of the 
license, the facility shall be considered unlicensed and actions taken, as 
appropriate to process termination of the license. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.7.3. Name of Facility. Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency 
and by which the facility is licensed shall be used in telephone listing, on 
stationery, in advertising, etc. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.7.4.  Number of Beds. The maximum number of beds for which the facility 
is licensed shall not be exceeded. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
 
Subchapter 8     LICENSING 
Rule 48.8.1. Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set forth 
the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the classification of 
the facility, the type of building, the bed capacity for which the facility is licensed 
and the licensed number. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.8.2. Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by an interested person. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 812>>>
 
812 
  
Rule 48.8.3. License Not Transferable.  The license is not transferable or assignable to any 
other person except by written approval of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.8.4. Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31, following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.8.5. Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable annually upon: 
1. Filing and approval of an application for renewal by the licensee. 
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee. 
3. Maintenance by the licensed facility of minimum standards in its physical facility, 
staff, services, and operation as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 9    DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 48.9.1. Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearings and Review.  The licensing agency, 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is 
authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, or deny renewal of a license, in 
any case in which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with 
the requirements established under the law and these regulations.  Also, the 
following shall be grounds for denial or revocation of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license, or renewal of license. 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of Sections 
43-11-1 et seq, of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or of the rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards established by the licensing agency. 
3. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or other employees or personnel of 
the licensed facility. 
4. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the licensed 
facility to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the residents. 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the licensed facility and/or its services. 
7. Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
<<<PAGE 813>>>
 
813 
  
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of residents and 
employees of said licensed facility.  Detrimental practices include but are not 
limited to: 
a. Cruelty to a resident or indifference to the needs which are essential to the 
general well-being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a resident. 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of a resident. 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a resident. 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant when 
required by a resident's condition. 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a resident's condition becomes critical. 
g. Admission of a resident whose condition demands care beyond the level of care 
provided by the licensed facility as determined by its classification. 
9. A violation of 24-hour supervision requirement and/or the transfer of a residents 
from the licensed facility to any unlicensed facility may result in the facility’s 
license being made provisional for a period of 90 days.  At the end of that 90-day 
period, if corrective actions have not been taken by the licensed facility, that 
Provisional License may be revoked. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
RULE 48.9.2. Immediate Revocation of License:  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, the 
license and require closure of any institution for the aged or infirm, including any 
other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of the residents of 
said institution or the health and safety of the general public. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 10 PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING 
DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
Rule 48.10.1. Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency will provide an opportunity for a 
fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date within thirty (30) days 
<<<PAGE 814>>>
 
814 
  
from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally upon 
the applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision in Chancery 
Court pursuant to Section 43-11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972. An 
additional period of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.10.2. Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating facility 
without a license shall be declared in violation of these regulations and may be 
punished as set forth in the enabling statute.  Further, any person who violates any 
provision of the enabling statute, or of these regulations promulgated thereto 
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Such misdemeanor 
shall, upon conviction, be punishable as referenced in Section 43-11-25 of the 
Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.10.3. Ban on Admissions.  If a condition of immediate jeopardy exists at a licensed 
facility, written notice of the determination of the condition shall be provided by 
the licensing agency to the licensed facility, along with the notification that a ban 
on all admissions is to be imposed five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the 
notice by the licensed facility.  If the licensing agency’s determination of a 
condition of immediate jeopardy on the day of the licensure visit/survey is 
confirmed, a ban on all admissions shall be imposed until the licensed facility 
achieves compliance and such compliance is verified by the licensing agency.  
The licensing agency will verify the licensed facility’s corrective actions as soon 
as possible after the licensing agency receives a plan of correction from the 
licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 11 ADMINISTRATION 
Rule 48.11.1. Operator.  There shall be a full-time employee designated as operator of the 
licensed facility who shall be responsible for the management of the licensed 
facility.  The operator shall be at least twenty-one years of age and shall be a high 
school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall not be a resident of the 
licensed facility.  The operator shall have verification that he is not listed on the 
<<<PAGE 815>>>
 
815 
  
"Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."  When the operator is not within the 
licensed facility, there shall be an individual onsite at the licensed facility who 
shall represent the operator, and be capable of assuming the responsibility of 
operator.  Said person must be at least twenty-one years or age and shall be a high 
school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall have verification that he is not 
listed on the "Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry." 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.2. Operator Mentoring.  Operators shall be scheduled to spend two (2) concurrent 
days with the licensing agency for the purpose of training and mentoring.  
Placement of an operator with the licensing agency may include, but not be 
limited to, assignments within the licensing agency’s central offices or placement 
with a survey team.  Any costs associated with placements for the purposes of this 
section shall be borne by the licensed facility at which the operator is employed.  
The operator shall keep confidential and not disclose to any other persons any 
identifying information about any person or entity that he/she learned while 
observing operations as required by this section, except as otherwise mandated by 
law. 
1. This section shall apply to operators who: 
2. have been employed by a licensed facility for less than six (6) months, during 
which time the placement must be completed. 
3. This section shall not apply to operators who: 
4. have previously participated in a placement as required by this section or 
5. who were previously employed by the licensing agency in a surveyor capacity. 
6. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the operator from serving in such capacity of a licensed facility until a 
placement is completed. 
7. This section shall go into effect January 1, 2002, and thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.3. Surveyor Mentoring.  Surveyors shall be scheduled to spend two (2) concurrent 
days with a licensed facility for the purpose of training and mentoring.  Selection 
of a licensed facility for placement of the surveyor shall be done at the discretion 
of the licensing agency, except no licensed facility shall be required to accept 
more than two (2) placements in any calendar year.  Upon completion of said 
training, the surveyor shall not participate in a survey of the same licensed facility 
for a period not to exceed one year from the date of training placement.  Any 
costs associated with the placement of a surveyor for the purposes of this section 
shall be borne by the licensing agency.  The surveyor shall keep confidential and 
<<<PAGE 816>>>
 
816 
  
not disclose to any other persons any identifying information about any person or 
entity that the surveyor learned while observing operations as required by this 
section, except as otherwise mandated by law.  This section shall apply to 
surveyors who have been employed by the licensing agency in a surveyor 
capacity for less than six (6) months, during which time the placement must be 
completed. 
1. This section shall not apply to surveyors who were previously employed by a 
licensed facility.   
2. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the surveyor from serving in such capacity for the licensing agency 
until a placement is completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.4. Other Personnel.  All direct care employees shall be a minimum of 18 years of 
age, and shall have verification that they are not listed on the "Mississippi Nurses 
Aide Abuse Registry."  Personnel shall receive training on a quarterly basis on 
topics and issues related to the population being served in the licensed facility.  
Training shall be documented by a narrative of the content and signatures of those 
attending.  Personnel shall be employed and on duty, awake, and fully dressed to 
provide personal care to the residents.  The following staffing ratio shall apply: 
1. one (1) resident attendant per fifteen (15) or fewer residents for the hours of 7:00 
a.m. until 7:00 p.m. 
2. one (1) resident attendant per twenty-five (25) or fewer residents for the hours of 
7:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.5. Criminal History Record Checks. 
1. Pursuant to Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the covered entity shall 
require to be performed a disciplinary check with the professional licensing 
agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any disciplinary action has been 
taken against the employee by the agency, and a criminal history check on: 
a. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care or 
services and who is employed after or on July 01, 2003, and 
b. Every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, who has 
documented disciplinary action by his or her present employer. 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired on or after 
July 1, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care until the results of 
the criminal history record check revealed no disqualifying record or the 
<<<PAGE 817>>>
 
817 
  
employee has been granted a waiver.  Provide the covered entity has documented 
evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background check, any person may 
be employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary basis pending the 
results of the criminal history record check buy any employment offer, contract, 
or arrangement with the person shall be voidable if he/she receives a disqualifying 
criminal record check and no waiver is granted. 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a guilty plea; 
and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of the following 
crimes which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon has not been 
granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be employed at the license 
facility: 
a. possession or sale of drugs 
b. murder 
c. manslaughter 
d. armed robbery 
e. rape 
f. sexual battery 
g. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23, Mississippi Code of 1972 
h. child abuse 
i. arson 
j. grand larceny 
k. burglary 
l. gratification of lust 
m. aggravated assault 
n. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
4. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, with 
the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and evidence of 
submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on file 
and maintained by the facility prior to the new employees first date of 
employment.  The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification of 
the employee’s disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing 
agency and of submission and/or completion of the criminal record check, the 
<<<PAGE 818>>>
 
818 
  
signed affidavit, if applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment. 
5. Pursuant to Section §43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency 
shall require every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, 
to sign an affidavit stating that he or she does not have a criminal history as 
outlined in paragraph (c) above. 
6. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered entity hired before 
July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care unless the 
employee has signed an affidavit as required by this section.  The covered entity 
shall place the affidavit in the employee’s personnel file as proof of compliance 
with this section.  
7. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is later determined 
that the person actually had been convicted of or pleaded guilty or nolo 
contendere to any of the offenses listed herein, and the conviction or pleas has not 
been reversed on appeal or a pardon has not been granted for the conviction or 
plea, the person is guilty of perjury as set out in Section 43-11-13, Mississippi 
Code of 1972.  The covered entity shall immediately institute termination 
proceedings against the employee pursuant to the facility’s policies and 
procedures. 
8. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable to sign the 
affidavit required by paragraph (g) of this subsection or any employee applicant 
aggrieved by the employment decision under this subsection to appear before the 
covered entity’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show mitigating 
circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or employee applicant to be 
employed at the covered entity.  The covered entity, upon report and 
recommendation of the hiring officer, may grant waivers for those mitigating 
circumstances, which shall include, but not be limited to: (1) age at which the 
crime was committed; (2) circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) length of time 
since the conviction and criminal history since the conviction; (4) work history; 
(5) current employment and character references; and (6) other evidence 
demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to the health or 
safety of the patients in the licensed facility. 
9. The licensing agency may charge the licensed entity submitting the fingerprints a 
fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
10. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check reveal no 
disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) weeks of the 
notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee applicant with a 
notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the covered entity, or his 
or her authorized designee, confirming the employee applicant’s suitability for 
employment based on his or her criminal history record check.  An employee 
applicant may use that letter for a period of two (2) years from the date of the 
<<<PAGE 819>>>
 
819 
  
letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health without the necessity of an additional criminal record 
check.  Any covered entity presented with the letter may rely on the letter with 
respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background and is not required for a 
period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a 
criminal history record check as required in this subsection. 
11. For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct patient care as 
defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal history record 
check. 
12. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency, the 
covered entity, and their agents, officers, employees, attorneys and 
representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any employment 
decision or action taken under this section.  The presumption of good faith may be 
overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil action.  No licensing 
agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, employees, attorneys and 
representatives shall be held liable in any employment discrimination suit in 
which an allegation of discrimination is made regarding an employment decision 
authorized under this section. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.6. Employee's Health Status. All licensed facility personnel shall receive a health 
screening by a licensed physician, a nurse practitioner/physician assistant, or a 
registered nurse prior to employment and annually thereafter. Records of this 
health screening shall be kept on file in the licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.7. Employee Testing for Tuberculosis 
1. Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to 
contact with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one 
of the following methods: 
 
a. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual for signs 
and symptoms of tuberculosis by medical personnel; or 
 
b. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and read by a 
licensed medical/nursing person certified in the techniques of 
tuberculin testing and an evaluation of the individual for signs 
and symptoms of tuberculosis by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant, Nurse Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may be 
administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no more 
<<<PAGE 820>>>
 
820 
  
than 30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the individual 
must not be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of the RBIR 
where patients have access until receipt of the results of the 
IGRA/assessment or at least the first of the two-step Mantoux test has been 
administered/read and assessment for the signs and symptoms completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in 
millimeters. Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and 
assessment must be documented in accordance with accepted standards 
of medical/nursing practice and must be placed in the individual’s 
personnel file no later than 7 days of the individual’s date of employment. If 
an IGRA is performed, results and quantitative values must be documented. 
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive 
Mantoux skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease (TB) 
that last longer than three weeks (regardless of the size of the skin test or 
results of the IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a board 
certified Radiologist and be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a licensed 
physician within 72 hours. The employee shall not be allowed to work in 
any area where clients have routine access until evaluated by a 
physician/nurse practitioner/physician assistant and approved to return. 
Exceptions to this requirement may be made if the employee is 
asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of tuberculosis prophylactic therapy 
approved by the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) 
Tuberculosis Program for tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation 
of having received a course of multi-drug chemotherapy approved 
by the MSDH Tuberculosis Program; or 
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant tuberculin 
skin reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux testing  
or the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and symptoms must be 
conducted and must be maintained as part of the employee’s annual 
health screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is NOT required unless 
symptoms of active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin test 
and a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of the 
two- step Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in the 
employees’ personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
<<<PAGE 821>>>
 
821 
  
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who 
has not been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test 
cannot be documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has 
documentation that the employee has had a negative TB skin test within the 
past 12 months, a single test performed thirty (30) days prior to employment 
or immediately upon hire will fulfill the two-step requirements. As 
above, the employee shall not have contact with clients or be allowed to 
work in areas of the RBIR to which clients have routine access prior to 
reading the skin test, completing a signs and symptoms assessment and 
documenting the results and findings. 
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease 
Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding 
baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and 
education. Staff exposed to an active infectious case of tuberculosis shall be 
treated as contacts and be managed appropriately. Individuals found to 
have a significant Mantoux tuberculin skin test reaction and a chest x-
ray not suggestive of active tuberculosis, shall be evaluated by a physician 
or nurse practitioner/physician assistant for treatment of latent tuberculin 
infection. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.8. Admission Agreement.  Prior to, or at the time of admission, the operator and the 
resident or the resident's responsible party shall execute in writing a financial 
agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed in two or more copies, 
one copy given to the resident or his/her responsible party, and one copy placed 
on file in the licensed facility. 
1. As a minimum, this agreement shall contain specifically: 
a. Basic charges agreed upon (room, board, laundry, and personal care). 
b. Period to be covered in the charges. 
c. Services for which special charges are made. 
d. Agreement regarding refunds for any payments made in advance. 
e. A statement that the operator shall make the resident's responsible party aware, 
in a timely manner, of any changes in resident's status, including those which 
require transfer and discharge; or operators who have been designated as a 
resident's responsible party shall ensure prompt and efficient action to meet 
resident's needs. 
2. No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee and the 
resident or his responsible agent which will relieve the licensee of the 
<<<PAGE 822>>>
 
822 
  
responsibility for the protection of the person and personal property of the 
individual admitted to the licensed facility for care. 
3. Any funds given or provided for the purpose of supplying services to any patient 
in any licensed facility, and any funds otherwise received and held from, for or on 
behalf of any such resident, shall be deposited by the director or other proper 
officer of the licensed facility to the credit of that patient in an account which 
shall be known as the Resident's Personal Deposit Fund. No more than one (1) 
month charge for the care, support, maintenance, and medical attention of the 
patient shall be applied from such account at any one (1) time. After the death, 
discharge, or transfer of any resident for whose benefit any such fund has been 
provided, any unexpended balance remaining in his personal deposit fund shall be 
applied for the payment of care, cost of support, maintenance, and medical 
attention which is accrued. In the event any unexpended balance remains in that 
resident's personal deposit fund after complete reimbursement has been made for 
payment of care, support, maintenance, and medical attention, and the director or 
other proper officer of the licensed facility has been or shall be unable to locate 
the person or persons entitled to such unexpended balance, the director or other 
proper officer may, after the lapse of one (1) year from the date of such death, 
discharge, or transfer, deposit the unexpended balance to the credit of the licensed 
facility's operating fund. 
4. The resident or his responsible party shall be furnished a receipt signed by the 
licensee of the licensed facility or his lawful agent, for all sums of money paid to 
the licensed facility. 
5. Written notification shall be given to the resident/responsible party when basic 
charges and/or licensed facility policies change. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.9. Records and Reports. 
1. The operator shall maintain a record of the residents for whom he or she serves as 
the conservator or a representative payee.  This record shall include evidence of 
the means by which the conservatorship or representative payee relationship was 
established and evidence of separate accounts in a bank for each resident whose 
conservator or representative payee is the operator of the licensed facility. 
2. Inspection reports from the licensing agency, any branch or division thereof by 
the operator in the licensed facility, and submitted to the licensing agency as 
required, or when requested. 
3. Resident records shall contain the following: 
a. Admission agreement(s) and financial statements. 
b. Residents' rights and licensed facility’s rules, signed, dated, and witnessed. 
<<<PAGE 823>>>
 
823 
  
c. Medical evaluation and referral from physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant. 
d. Current medication record, including any reactions to such medication. 
e. Social services and activity contacts. 
f. General information form. 
g. Representative payee statement, if applicable. 
h. Physician orders or nurse practitioner/physician assistant orders (including, but 
not limited to, therapies, diets, medications, etc.) and medication administration 
records. 
4. The records as described in this section shall be made available to the resident, the 
resident’s family, or other responsible party for the resident upon reasonable 
request. 
5. Reporting of Tuberculosis Testing.  The facility shall report and comply with the 
annual MDH TB Program surveillance procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.10. Licensed Facility Policies.  Written policies shall be available which indicate 
services to be provided, and which include policies regarding admission, transfer 
and discharge of residents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.11.11.   Residents' Rights.  These rights and licensed facility rules must be in writing 
and be made available to all residents, employees, sponsors, and posted for public 
viewing.  Each resident shall: 
1. Have the right to attend religious and other activities of his/her choice. 
2. Have the right to manage his/her personal financial affairs, or is given at least a 
quarterly accounting of financial transactions made on his/her behalf should the 
facility accept the written delegation from the resident or from his/her responsible 
party of this responsibility to the facility for any period of time in conformance 
with State law. 
3. Not be required to perform services for the licensed facility. 
4. Have the right to communicate with persons of his/her choice, and may receive 
mail unopened or in compliance with the policies of the home. 
5. Be treated with consideration, kindness, respect, and full recognition of his/her 
dignity and individually. 
<<<PAGE 824>>>
 
824 
  
6. May retain and use personal clothing and possessions as space permits. 
7. May voice grievances and recommend changes in licensed facility policies and 
services. 
8. Shall not be confined to the licensed facility against his/her will, and shall be 
allowed to move about in the community at liberty.  Physical and/or chemical 
restraints are prohibited. 
9. Not be limited in his/her choice of a pharmacy or pharmacist provider in 
accordance with State law. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 12 MEDICAL AND PERSONAL CARE SERVICES 
Rule 48.12.1. Admission and Discharge.  The following criteria must be applied and 
maintained for resident placement in a licensed facility.   
1. A person shall not be admitted or continue to reside in a licensed facility if the 
person: 
a. Is not ambulatory; 
b. Requires physical restraints; 
c. Poses a serious threat to himself or herself or others; 
d. Requires nasopharyngeal and/or tracheotomy suctioning; 
e. Requires gastric feedings; 
f. Requires intravenous fluids, medications, or feedings; 
g. Requires a indwelling urinary catheter; 
h. Requires sterile wound care; or 
i. Requires treatment of decubitus ulcer or exfoliative dermatitis. 
2. Licensed facilities which are not accessible to individuals with disabilities through 
the A.N.S.I. Standards as they relate to facility accessibility may not accept 
wheelchair bound residents.  Only those persons who, in an emergency, would be 
physically and mentally capable of traveling to safety may be accepted. For 
multilevel facilities, no residents may be placed above the ground floor level that 
are unable to descend the stairs unassisted. 
3. The licensed facility must be able to identify at the time of admission and during 
continued stay those residents whose needs for services are consistent with these 
<<<PAGE 825>>>
 
825 
  
rules and regulations, and those residents who should be transferred to an 
appropriate level of care. 
4. Notwithstanding any determination by the licensing agency that skilled nursing 
services would be appropriate for a resident of a personal care home, that resident, 
the resident’s guardian, or the legally recognized responsible party for the resident 
may consent in writing for the resident to continue to reside in the personal care 
home, if approved in writing by a licensed physician.  Provided, however, that no 
personal care home shall allow more than two (2) residents, or ten percent (10%) 
of number of residents in the facility, whichever is greater, to remain in the 
personal care home under the provisions herein.  This consent shall be deemed to 
be appropriately informed consent as described by these regulations.  After that 
written consent has been obtained, the resident shall have the right to continue to 
reside in the personal care home for as long as the resident meets the other 
conditions for residing in the personal care home.  A copy of the written consent 
and the physician’s approval shall be forwarded by the personal care home to the 
licensing agency within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the latter of the two (2) 
documents. 
5. The licensed facility which accepts and admits residents requiring mental health 
services shall help arrange transportation to mental health appointments and 
cooperate with the community mental health center or other provider of mental 
health care, as necessary, to ensure access to and the coordination of care, within 
limits of the confidentiality and privacy rights of the individual receiving services.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.12.2. Medical Evaluation.  Each person applying for admission to a licensed facility 
shall be given a thorough examination by a licensed physician or certified nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant within thirty (30) days prior to admission. The 
examination shall indicate the appropriateness of admission, according to the 
above criteria, to a licensed facility with an annual update by a physician and/or 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.12.3. Admission Requirements to Rule Out Active Tuberculosis (TB) 
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior to the 
resident’s admission to the licensed facility: 
a. A TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed physician, physician 
assistant or nurse practitioner; and 
b. A chest x-ray taken and have a written interpretation. 
2. Admission to the facility shall be based on the results of the required tests as 
follows: 
<<<PAGE 826>>>
 
826 
  
a.   Residents with an abnormal chest x-ray and/or signs and symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test 
(TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA (blood test) drawn 
and results documented within 30 days prior to the patient’s admission to the  
“Licensed facility”.  Evaluation for active TB shall be at the recommendation of 
the MSDH and shall be prior to admission.  If TB is ruled out and the first step 
of the TST is negative, the second step of the two-step TST shall be completed 
and documented within 10-21 days of admission.  TST administration and 
reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, 
TST (first and/or second step) is not done. 
b. Residents with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or symptoms of TB shall 
have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with the initial step 
of  the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 days prior to the day of 
admission.  IF TST is done, the second step shall be completed within 10-21 
days of the first step.  TST administration and reading shall be done by certified 
personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, a TST is not done (first or second 
step). 
c.   Residents with a significant TST OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall be 
monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB (cough, sputum 
production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night sweats, especially if the 
symptoms have lasted longer than three weeks) and if these symptoms develop, 
shall have an evaluation for TB per the recommendations of the MSDH within 
72 hours.  
d. Residents with a non significant TST or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual tuberculosis testing within thirty (30) days 
of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing is used, IGRA 
testing should continue to be used rather than TST testing. 
e.   Residents with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood 
test) on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse practitioner or 
physician or physician’s assistant.   
f.   Active or suspected Active TB Admission.  If a resident has or is 
suspected to have active TB, prior written approval for admission to the facility 
is required from the MSDH TB State Medical Consultant. 
g. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
i. Resident has prior documentation of a significant TST/positive IGRA. 
ii. Resident has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment 
regimen for latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
iii. Resident is excluded by a licensed physician or nurse 
<<<PAGE 827>>>
 
827 
  
practitioner/physician assistant due to medical contraindications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.12.4. Transfer to another facility or return of resident to respite care shall be based 
on the above tests (Rule 48.12.3) if done within the past 12 months and the patient 
has no signs and symptoms of TB. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.12.5 Disease Prevention. By September 1st of each year and in accordance with the 
latest recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, each Personal Care Home, both 
Assisted Living and Residential, shall provide residents educational information 
on Influenza disease. This educational information shall include, but need not be 
limited to, the risks associated with influenza disease, the availability, 
effectiveness and known contraindications of the influenza immunization, causes 
and symptoms of influenza and the means by which influenza is spread. (All 
information is free and available from the CDC website). Nothing in this 
provision shall require any Residential or Assisted Living Facility to provide or 
pay for any vaccination against influenza.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.12.6 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office.  If a resident has signs or 
symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the facility shall notify the MDH, 
the hospital, transporting staff, and physician’s office prior to transferring the 
resident to a hospital. Appropriate isolation and evaluation shall be the 
responsibility of the hospital and physician. If a resident has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission or readmission to the facility 
is required from the MDH TB State Consultant. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 13 FOOD SERVICE 
Rule 48.13.1. Meals.  The licensed facility shall provide residents with well-planned, attractive, 
and satisfying meals at least three (3) times daily, seven (7) days a week, which will 
meet their nutritional, social, emotional and therapeutic needs.  The daily food 
allowance shall meet the current recommended dietary allowances. 
1. Meals shall be planned one (1) week in advance.  A record of meals served shall 
be maintained for a one (1) month period.  Current menus must be posted and 
dated. 
2. A record of all food purchases shall be maintained in the licensed facility for a 
one (1) month period. 
3. All food served in licensed facilities shall comply with the following: 
<<<PAGE 828>>>
 
828 
  
a. No game or home canned foods shall be served; and 
b. Other than fresh or frozen vegetables and fruit, all foods must be from 
commercial sources. 
4. All meals for residents who require therapeutic diets shall be planned by a 
Licensed Dietitian.  If a therapeutic diet is prescribed by the physician for the 
resident, the licensed dietitian shall visit the licensed facility at a minimum of 
once every thirty (30) days, and shall file a consulting report with the licensed 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 14 PHYSICAL FACILITIES.  
Rule 48.14.1. A licensed facility with sixteen (16) or more residents shall obtain a Food Service 
Permit from the Mississippi State Department of Health.   A licensed facility with 
fifteen (15) or fewer residents shall meet the requirements as set forth in the 
Facility Inspection Report issued by the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.14.2. Dietary Staffing. 
1. Licensed facilities shall have an employee dedicated to meal preparation and food 
service. 
2. All employees engaged in handling, preparation and/or serving of food shall wear 
clean clothing at all times. 
3. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wear hair 
nets, head bands, or caps to prevent the falling of hair. 
4. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wash their 
hands thoroughly before starting to work and immediately after contact with any 
soiled matter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 15 DRUG HANDLING 
Rule 48.15.1. Restrictions.  Licensed facilities shall be restricted in the quantity and classes of 
drugs allowed in the licensed facility. 
1. No Schedule I drugs shall be allowed in the licensed facility.  Residents requiring 
administration of Schedule II Narcotics as defined in the Uniform Controlled 
Substances Law may be admitted to a personal care home.  Schedule drugs may 
only be allowed in a personal care home if they are administered or stored 
<<<PAGE 829>>>
 
829 
  
utilizing proper procedures under the direct supervision of a licensed physician or 
nurse. 
2. The licensed facility may keep on hand a limited amount of non-prescription, 
over-the- counter medications. 
3. No intramuscular, subcutaneous, intravenous injectable, except for insulin and 
vitamin B-12, shall be allowed. 
4. Insulin or vitamin B-12 may be administered only if the resident is able to 
administer his/her own injectable, or is administered by a licensed nurse. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.15.2. Labeling.  The medications of all residents shall be clearly labeled. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.15.3. Storage of Prescription Medications.  Proper storage of all prescription 
medications shall be provided. 
1. All residents' prescription medications shall be stored in a secured area.  The area 
shall be kept locked when not in use, with responsibility for the key designated in 
writing. 
2. The prescription medication storage area shall be well-lighted, well-ventilated, 
and kept in a clean and orderly fashion.  The temperature of the medication 
storage area should not exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit at any time. 
3. A refrigerator shall be provided for the storage of prescription medications 
requiring refrigeration.  If the refrigerator houses food or beverages, the residents’ 
prescription medications shall be stored in a covered container or separate 
compartment.  All refrigerators shall be equipped with thermometers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.15.4. Responsibility. A non-resident employee, appointed by the operator, shall be 
responsible for the following: 
1. Storage of prescription medications. 
2. Keeping a current prescription medication list, including frequency and dosage, 
which shall be updated at least every thirty (30) days, or with any significant 
change. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 830>>>
 
830 
  
Rule 48.15.5. Disposal of Unused Prescription Medications.  In the event any prescription 
medication is no longer in use for any reason, it shall be disposed of in accordance 
with the regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 16 SOCIAL SERVICES 
Rule 48.16.1.  The licensed facility shall make provisions for referring residents with social and           
emotional needs to an appropriate social services agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 17 RESIDENT ACTIVITIES 
Rule 48.17.1. Activities Program.  An activities program shall be in effect which is appropriate 
to the needs and interests of each resident. 
1. Adequate and activity-appropriate space shall be provided for the various resident 
activities. 
2. Activities shall be provided on daily basis. 
3. Available community resources shall be utilized in the activities program. 
4. Supplies shall be available to implement an adequate activities program. 
5. A non-resident employee shall be responsible for the activities program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 18 PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
Rule 48.18.1. Required Areas/Rooms.  The following areas/rooms are required to be provided 
in a licensed facility: 
1. Bedrooms; 
2. Living room; 
3. Dining Area; 
4. Toilet and bathing facilities; 
5. Laundry; and 
6. Kitchen. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 831>>>
 
831 
  
Rule 48.18.2. Bedrooms. 
1. Location. 
a. All resident bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be below 
grade. Window areas shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the floor area. 
The window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches from the floor. Windows 
shall be operable. 
b. Resident bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of unpleasant 
odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
c. Resident bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor.  In no 
case shall a resident bedroom be used for access to another resident bedroom 
nor shall a resident bedroom be used for access to a required outside exit. 
d. All resident bedrooms shall be so located that the resident can travel from 
his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or toilet or bathing 
facility without having to go through another resident bedroom. 
e. Resident bedrooms shall house no more than four (4) persons each. 
2. Furnishings. 
a. Single beds shall be provided with good grade mattresses at least four (4) inches 
thick.  Cots and roll-away beds shall not be used. 
b. Each bed shall be equipped with a pillow and clean linens to include sheets, 
pillow cases, spreads and blankets.  An adequate supply of such linens shall be 
provided at all times to allow for a change of linen at least once a week. 
c. Chest of drawers or similar adequate storage space shall be provided for the 
clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings of each resident. 
d. Adequate closet space shall be provided for each resident. 
e. An adequate number of comfortable, sturdy chairs shall be provided. 
f. At least one (1) mirror, a minimum of 18" x 24", shall be provided in each 
bedroom. 
g. The opportunity for personal expression shall be permitted. 
h. A resident shall be permitted to use personal furnishings in lieu of those 
provided by the licensed facility, when practical. 
3. Floor Area.  Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be 80 square feet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 832>>>
 
832 
  
Rule 48.18.3. Living Room.  Living rooms, daybooks, and/or recreation rooms shall be 
provided for resident and visitors.  Each licensed facility shall provide at least two 
(2) areas for this purpose:  one (1) for small groups such as a private visit with 
relatives and friends; and one (1) for larger group activities.  The living room 
must be equipped with attractive, functional, and comfortable furniture in 
sufficient number to accommodate all residents.  A minimum of 18 square feet 
per bed shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.18.4. Dining Area.  A dining area shall be provided which shall be adequate to seat all 
residents at the same meal seating.  The dining area may also be used for social, 
recreational, and/or religious services when not in use as a dining facility.  A 
minimum of 15 Square feet per bed shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.18.5. Toilet and Bathing Facilities. 
1. Separate toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided, on each floor, for each sex 
in the following ratios as a minimum. 
a. Bathtubs/showers 1 per 12 or fraction thereof for each sex 
b. Lavatories  1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
c. Toilets   1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
2. A lavatory with mirror shall be provided in each toilet room or bedroom. 
3. Bathtubs and showers shall be equipped with grab bars, towel racks and non-glass 
shower enclosures.  Commodes shall be equipped with grab bars. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.18.6. Laundry.  Laundry facilities shall be provided unless commercial laundries are 
used. 
1. The laundry shall be located in a specifically designated area, and there shall be 
adequate room and space for sorting, processing and storage of soiled material.  
Laundry rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall not open directly into a 
resident's bedroom or food service area.  Soiled materials shall not be transported 
through the food service area.  The laundry area shall be kept clean and orderly. 
2. If commercial laundry is used, separate satisfactory storage areas shall be 
provided for clean and soiled linens. 
3. Provisions shall be made for proper mechanical ventilation of the laundry. 
<<<PAGE 833>>>
 
833 
  
4. Provisions shall also made to prevent the recirculation of air through the heating 
and air-conditioning systems. 
5. Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for dryers. 
6. When laundry chutes are provided, they shall have a minimum diameter of two 
(2) feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and drain. 
a.    An automatic sprinkler shall be provided at the top of the laundry chute and in 
any receiving room for a chute. 
b. A self-closing door shall be provided at the bottom of the chute. 
7. Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately perform the laundry needs 
of the facility.  The equipment shall be installed to comply with all local and state 
codes. 
8. There shall be a separate and designated area for the storage of clean linen. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.18.7. Kitchen.  The kitchen area shall meet the requirements as set forth in these 
regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 19 GENERAL 
Rule 48.19.1. Licensed Facility Classification.  To qualify for a license, the facility shall be 
planned to serve the type of residents to be admitted and shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.2. Location.  All facilities and licensed facilities shall be located so that they are 
free from undue noise, smoke, dust, or foul odors and shall not be located 
adjacent to disposal plants, railroad tracks, etc. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.3. Site.  The proposed site for facility must be approved by the licensing agency.  
Factors to be considered in approving a site shall be convenient to medical and 
hospital services, approved water supply and sewage disposal, public 
transportation, community services, services of an organized fire department, and 
availability to labor supply.  Not more than one-third (1/3) of a site shall be 
covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the licensing agency.  One 
example whereby approval may be granted is were the structure is to be placed in 
a very desirable location where the grounds are limited and very expensive.  
<<<PAGE 834>>>
 
834 
  
Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have a living 
room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate for 
lack of required outside area. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.4. Local Restrictions.  The site and structure of all licensed facilities shall comply 
with local building, fire, and zoning ordinances.  Proof of compliance shall be 
submitted to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.5. Transportation.  Licensed facilities shall be located on streets or roads which are 
passable at all times.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.6. Communications.  There shall be not less than one telephone in the licensed 
facility and such additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in the 
event of fire or other emergency.  The telephone shall be listed under the official 
licensed name or title of the licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.7. Occupancy.  No part of the licensed facility may be rented, leased, or used for 
any purpose not related to the operation of the licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.19.8. Basement. 
1. The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or more of its clear 
height is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining the building on all 
sides. 
2. No resident shall be housed on any floor that is below ground level. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 20 SUBMISSIONS OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS, EFFECTIVE      
AUGUST 13, 2005 
Rule 48.20.1. Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which 
do not affect the structural integrity of the building, change functional operation, 
affect fire safety, or affect the license bed capacity, do not need to have plans 
submitted for review provided that a detailed explanation of the proposed 
alteration or remodeling is submitted to and approved by the licensing agency. 
<<<PAGE 835>>>
 
835 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.2. First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans.  First stage or preliminary plans 
shall include: 
1. Plot plan showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed building and 
any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroads, etc., all 
properly designated; and size, characteristics, and location of all existing public 
utilities. 
2. Floor plan showing over-all dimensions of building(s); location, size, and purpose 
of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other openings with 
swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of all corridors and hallways; and 
location of stairs, elevators, dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
3. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.3. Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications. 
1. Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include: 
2. Architectural drawings 
3. Structural drawings 
4. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
5. Electrical drawings 
6. Detailed specifications 
7. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual construction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.4. Preparation of Plans and Specifications.  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.5. Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
<<<PAGE 836>>>
 
836 
  
licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.6. Notification of Start of Construction.  The licensing agency shall be informed 
in writing at the time construction is begun. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.7. Inspections.  The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to the work for inspection whenever it is in preparation or 
progress, and the owner shall ascertain that proper facilities are made available for 
such access and inspection. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.8. Limit of Approval.  In construction delayed for a period of exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a new 
evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.20.9. Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal.  The water supply and sewerage 
disposal shall be approved by the local county health department and/or the 
Division of Sanitary Engineering, Mississippi State Department of Health.  No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall be 
installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended until 
complete plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have 
been so approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and final 
determination. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 21 GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 48.21.1. Structural Soundness and Repair.  The building shall be structurally sound, free 
from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at sufficient 
intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out.  Walls and ceilings of 
hazardous areas shall be one (1) hour fire resistance rating. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.2. Heating and Cooling Systems.  Adequate heating and cooling systems shall be 
provided to maintain inside temperature between 68 degrees Fahrenheit and 78 
degrees Fahrenheit depending on the season. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 837>>>
 
837 
  
Rule 48.21.3. Lighting.  Each resident's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum brightness of ten (10) foot 
candles of lighting for general use in residents' rooms and a minimum brightness 
of thirty (30) foot candles of lighting for reading purposes.  All entrances, 
hallways, stairways, ramps, cellars, attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and 
service units shall have sufficient artificial lighting to prevent accidents and 
promote efficiency of service. Night lights shall be provided in all hallways, 
stairways, toilets, and bathing rooms. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.4. Emergency Lighting.  At least one functioning, battery-operated emergency light 
shall be provided in each hallway. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.5. Screens.  All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with 
tight fitting, full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out 
and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.6. Floors.  All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks, and shall 
be finished so that they can be easily cleaned.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.7. Walls and Ceilings.  All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction, with 
an acceptable surface, and shall be maintained in good repair. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.8. Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least seven (7) feet, except 
that a height of six (6) feet six (6) inches may be approved for hallways or toilets 
and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.9. Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of 
residents, shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in ten (10) feet of run, shall be 
furnished with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both 
sides. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.10. Door Swing.  Exit doors, other than from a living unit, shall swing in the director 
of exit from the structure. 
<<<PAGE 838>>>
 
838 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.11. Floor Levels.  All differences in floor levels within the building shall be 
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) six-inch risers, ramps, or inclines, 
and shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.12. Space Under Stairs.  Space under stairs shall not be used for storage purposes.  
All walls and doors shall meet the same fire rating as the stairwell. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.13. Interior Finish and Floor Coverings.  Interior finish and decorative material 
shall be not less than Class B and floor covering shall have a flame spread not to 
exceed 75. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.14. Fire Extinguishers.  Fire extinguishers of number, type, and capacity appropriate 
to the need shall be provided for each floor and for special fire hazard areas such as 
kitchen, laundry, and mechanical room.  All extinguishers shall be of a type 
approved by the licensing agency.  A vaporizing liquid extinguisher (such as 
carbon tetrachloride) will not be approved for use inside the building.  
Extinguishers shall be inspected and serviced periodically as recommended by the 
manufacturer.  The date of inspection shall be entered on a tag attached to the 
extinguisher and signed by a reliable inspector such as the local fire chief or 
representative of a fire extinguisher servicing company. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.15. Smoke Detectors.  Smoke detectors shall be installed in each hallway no more 
than thirty (30) feet apart, in all bedrooms and in all storage rooms.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.16. Trash Chutes.  Trash chutes are prohibited. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.17. Housekeeping and Maintenance.  The interior and exterior of the licensed 
facility shall be maintained in an attractive, safe and sanitary condition. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.18. Pest Control.  Pest control inspections and, if necessary, treatments, shall be 
made to control pests, vermin, insects and rodents, at a minimum of once every 
thirty (30) days, by a company that is licensed by the State of Mississippi.  The 
<<<PAGE 839>>>
 
839 
  
licensing agency may, in its discretion, require more frequent inspections and 
treatments.  The inspection and treatment reports shall be maintained at the 
licensed facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.19. Water Temperature.  The temperature of hot water at plumbing fixtures used by 
residents shall not exceed 115 degrees Fahrenheit and no less than 100 degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.21.20. Combustion Air.  Combustion air to all equipment requiring it must come from 
the outside. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 22 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 48.22.1. Building Protection.  Facilities licensed after August 13, 2005, shall be 
constructed to have;  
1. Building Protection. 
a. Automatic Sprinklers Required.  Facilities licensed after the effective date of 
these regulations shall be protected throughout by a supervised automatic 
sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current edition of NFPA 13, 
Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 
b. In facilities licensed for sixteen (16) or fewer residents and where the 
characteristics of occupancy are comparable with one (1) and two (2) family 
residential fire potentials, an NFPA 13D-styled sprinkler system may be 
installed. 
2. Building Construction. 
a. Single story.  No requirements 
b. Multi-story (less than four floors).  One hour fire resistance rating as prescribed 
by the current edition of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 
Standard 220, types of Building Construction. (Example: Type II (111), or Type 
V (111). 
c. Mobile structures.  No mobile structures are acceptable for housing residents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.2. Multi-story Building. Elevator Required.  No resident shall be housed in a 
building three stories and above unless the building is equipped with an elevator.  
<<<PAGE 840>>>
 
840 
  
The minimum cab size of the elevator shall be approximately six (6) feet eight (8) 
inches by five (5) feet and constructed of metal.  The width of the shaft door shall 
be at least three (3) feet six (6) inches.  The load weight capacity shall not be less 
than 2,500 pounds.  The elevator shaft shall be enclosed by construction of not 
less than a two-hour fire resistive rating.  Elevators shall not be counted as 
required exits. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.3. Hazardous Areas and Combustible Storage.  Heating apparatus and boiler and 
furnace rooms, basements, or attics used for the storage of combustible material 
and workrooms, shall be classified as hazardous areas and shall be separated from 
other areas by construction having a fire resistive rating of at least one (1) hour. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.4. Stairs.  Stairs shall be enclosed with at least one-hour fire rated construction. 
1. Handrails shall be provided on both sides of the stairs. 
2. The width of the stairs shall not be less than forty-four (44) inches.  
3. The stairs shall be well lighted at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.5. Exit Doors.  Exit doors shall meet the following: 
1. At least two (2) remotely located exits shall be provided for each occupied story 
of a facility. 
2. Dead end hallways in excess of twenty (20) feet are not allowed. 
3. Doors to the exterior shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide and egress 
shall not be impeded by being locked. 
4. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct the travel 
along any required exit. 
5. Doors leading to stairways shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide. 
6. Revolving doors shall not be used as required exits. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.6. Hallways and Passageways. 
1. Hallways and passageways shall be kept unobstructed. 
<<<PAGE 841>>>
 
841 
  
2. Hallways and passageways which lead to the outside from any required stairway 
shall be enclosed as required for stairways. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 48.22.7. Mechanical and Electric Systems. 
1. Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and water systems 
installed shall meet the requirements of local codes and ordinances as well as the 
applicable regulation of the licensing agency.  Where there are no local codes or 
ordinances, the following codes and recommendations shall govern: 
a. National Electrical Code. 
b. National Plumbing Code. 
c. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers, 
Inc. 
d. Recommendations of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
e. Recommendations of American Gas Association. 
f. National Fire Protection Association. 
2. The heating of licensed facilities shall be restricted to steam, hot water, or warm 
air systems employing central heating plants, or Underwriters Laboratories 
approved electric heating.  The use of portable heaters of any kind is prohibited 
with the following exceptions: 
a. Gas heaters provided they meet all of the following: 
i. A circulating type with a recessed enclosed flame so designed that clothing or 
other inflammable material cannot be ignited. 
ii. Equipped with a safety pilot light. 
iii. Properly vented to the outside. 
iv. Approved by American Gas Association or Underwriters Laboratories. 
b. An approved type of electrical heater such as wall insert type. 
3. Lighting (except for battery-operated emergency lighting) shall be restricted to 
electricity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 23 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN 
<<<PAGE 842>>>
 
842 
  
Rule 48.23.1. The Residential Living Facility shall develop and maintain a written preparedness 
plan utilizing the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  
The plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of 
terrorism or man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific 
geographical location. The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), 
will be reviewed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, 
Mississippi State Department of Health, or their designates, for conformance with 
the “All Hazards Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular 
attention shall be given to critical areas of concern which may arise during any 
“all hazards” emergency whether required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  
Additional plan criteria or a specified EOP format may be required as deemed 
necessary by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response.   
1. The six (6) critical areas of consideration are:  
a. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP. 
b. Resources and Assets 
c. Safety and Security 
d. Staffing 
e. Utilities  
f. Clinical Activities. 
2. Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or 
as directed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response.  Written 
evidence of current approval or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all applications for 
facility license renewals 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 24 FACILITY FIRE PREPAREDNESS 
Rule 48.24.1. Fire Drills.  Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year.    
1. Written Records.  Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
2. A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in each facility in a conspicuous place and 
kept current. 
<<<PAGE 843>>>
 
843 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
CHAPTER 49 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR  INTERMEDIATE CARE 
FACILITIES  FOR INDIVIDUALS  WITH  INTELLECTUAL  
DISABILITIES  (ICF-IID) 
Subchapter 1 GENERAL: INSTITUTIONS FOR THE AGED OR INFIRM  INCLUSIVE 
OF INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH 
INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES (ICF-IID):  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 49.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards .  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated §43-11-1 through §43-11-17, 
or as otherwise amended, the Mississippi State Department of Health (otherwise 
known as the licensing agency), does hereby adopt and promulgate the following 
Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Intermediate Care Facilities for 
Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities  (hereinafter referred to as ICF-IID).  Upon 
adoption of these Rules, Regulations,  and Minimum Standards for ICFs -IID, any 
former rules, regulations and minimum standards, in conflict therewith, previously 
adopted by the licensing agency are hereby repealed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.1.2 Codes and Ordinances.  Every ICF-IID or ICF-IID residential community home 
located inside the boundaries of a municipality shall comply with all local 
municipal codes and ordinances applicable thereto.  In addition, each ICF -IID 
and/or ICF-IID residential community home shall comply with all applicable state 
and federal laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.1.3 Fire Safety.  No ICF-IID or ICF-IID residential community home shall be licensed 
until it shows conformance to the safety regulations providing minimum standards 
for prevention and detection of fire as well as for protection of life and property 
against fire. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.1.4 Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable deaths 
or avoidable, serious, or life -threatening injuries to clients resulting from fires, 
explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the Fire Safety 
and Construction Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after 
the occurrence.  The licensing agency will provide the appropriate forms to the ICF-
IID which shall be completed and returned within fifteen (15) calendar days of the 
occurrence.  All reports  shall be complete and thorough and shall record, at a 
minimum the causal factors, date and time of occurrence, exact location of 
<<<PAGE 844>>>
 
844 
  
occurrence within or without the ICF -IID, and attached thereto shall be all police, 
fire, or other official reports. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2      Definitions. 
Rule 49.2.1 Active Treatment. The term active treatment shall mean that each client receive 
a continuous active treatment program, which includes aggressive consistent 
implementation of a program of specialized and generic training, treatment, health 
services, and related services that is directed toward the acquisition of the behaviors 
necessary for the client to function with as much self -determination and 
independence as possible; and for the prevention or deceleration of regression or 
loss of current optimal  functional status.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.2 Administrator.  The term "administrator" shall mean a person who is delegated    
responsibility for the interpretation, implementation, and proper application of 
policies and programs established by the governing authority and are delegated 
responsibility for the estab lishment of safe and effective administrative 
management, control, and operation of the services provided and as required in an 
ICF-IID.  The administrator shall be duly licensed by the Mississippi State Board 
of Nursing Home Administrators.  
1. “Administrator for ICF -IID Residential Community Home”.  The 
Administrator for the ICF -IID Residential Community Home shall mean a 
highly responsible position under the direct supervision of the Executive 
Director/Governing Authority who is delegated respo nsibility over 
establishment of safe and effective administrative management, control, and 
operation of the services provided in the Residential Community Home.   This 
individual at a minimum should hold a license as a Nursing Home 
Administrator with exper ience in an ICF -IID, or have a Master’s degree in a 
related field and meet the qualifications of a Qualified Intellectual Disabilities 
Professional (QIDP).  An Administrator for an ICF-IID Residential Community 
Home shall administer homes within a 75 mile geographic service area of the 
governing authority. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.3 Allegation of Compliance. Allegation of Compliance shall mean a detailed 
corrective action taken by the ICF-IID or the ICF-IID residential community 
home to remove an immediate jeopardy, including the date the immediate 
jeopardy is removed, with sufficient detail outlining that the immediate jeopardy 
situation has been addressed, and resolved. 
Rule 49.2.4 Bed Capacity. The term "bed capacity" shall mean the largest number which can 
be installed or set up in an ICF -IID at any given time for use of clients, as printed 
<<<PAGE 845>>>
 
845 
  
on the certificate of licensure.  The bed capacity shall be based upon space designed 
and/or specifically intended for such use whether or not the beds are actually 
installed or set up. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.5 Bed Count. The term "bed count" shall mean the number of beds that are actually 
installed or set up for clients in an ICF-IID at a given time. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.6 Change of Ownership . The term "change of ownership" includes, but is not 
limited to, intervivos gifts, purchases, transfers, leases, cash and/or stock 
transactions or other comparable arrangements whenever the person or entity 
acquires a majority interest (Fifty percent [50% ] or more) of the ICF -IID or 
services.  Changes of ownership from partnerships, single proprietorships or 
corporations to another form of ownership are specifically included.  Provided, 
however, "Change of Ownership" shall not include inherited interest acquired as a 
result of a testamentary instrument or under the laws of descent and distribution of 
the State of Mississippi 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.7 Client.  The term "client" shall mean any person admitted to an intermediate care 
facility.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.8 Criminal History Record Checks.  
1. Affidavit. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, the term “affidavit” means the use of Mississippi State Department of 
Health (MSDH) Form #210, or a copy thereof, which shall be placed in the 
individual’s personal file. 
2. Employee. For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background history 
checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a covered entity.  The 
term “employee”, also includes any individual who by contract with the covered 
entity provides direct patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s room or 
in treatment rooms. The term “employee” does not include healthcare 
professional/technical students, as defined in Section 37 -29-232, performing 
clinical training in a licensed entity under contr acts between their schools and 
the licensed entity, and does not include students at high schools who observe 
the treatment and care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the requirements 
of an allied health course taught in the school if: 
a. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; and 
<<<PAGE 846>>>
 
846 
  
b. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s school 
stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty or nolo 
contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, manslaughter, 
armed robbery, rape, sexual b attery, any sex offenses listed in section 45 -
33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, burglary, gratification of lust, 
aggravated assault, or felonious abuse and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, 
or that any such conviction or plea was reversed on appeal or a pardon was 
granted for the conviction or plea. 
c. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi Medical 
Center for whom criminal history record checks and fingerprinting are 
obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are exempt from application 
of the term employee under Section 43-11-13. 
3. Covered Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered 
entity” means a licensed entity or a healthcare professional staffing agency. 
4. Licensed Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means a hospital, nursing home, personal care home, home 
health agency or hospice. 
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program . For 
the purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care 
professional/vocational technical academic program” means an academic 
program in medicine, nursing, dentistry, occupational therapy, physical 
therapy, social services, speech therapy, or oth er allied -health professional 
whose purpose is to prepare professionals to render patient care services. 
6. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student. For purposes 
of criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a 
healthcare professional/vocational technical academic program. 
7. Direct Patient Care or Services.  For purposes of fingerprinting and criminal 
background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means direct hands -
on medical patient care and services provided by an individual in a patient’s, 
resident’s or client’s room, treatment room or recove ry room.  Individuals 
providing direct patient care may be directly employed by the ICF -IID or 
provides patient care on a contractual basis. 
8. Documented Disciplinary Action .  For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary action” 
means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a patient. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.9 Day Shift .  The term “day shift” shall mean a minimum eight (8) hour period 
between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. 
<<<PAGE 847>>>
 
847 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.10 Dentist.  The term "dentist" shall mean a person currently licensed to practice                   
dentistry in Mississippi by the State Board of Dental Examiners 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.11 Dietitian.  The term “dietitian” shall mean a person who is licensed as a dietitian 
in the State of Mississippi, or a Registered Dietitian exempted from licensure by 
statute.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.12 Direct Support Personnel and/or Professionals.  Direct Support Personnel and/or 
Professionals (DSPs) are persons who work directly with developmental 
disabilities with the aim of assisting the individual to lead a self -directed life and 
contribute to their surroundings.  A DSP assists with activities  of daily living, if 
needed, and encourages attitudes and behaviors that enhance community inclusion. 
A DSP may provide support to a person with a disability in their environment, be 
it in their home or residence setting, work, school, church, and other places. A DSP 
also acts as an advocate for the individual with disabilities, in communicating their 
needs, self-expression, and goals .  A DSP shall have at a minimum a high school 
diploma or a GED. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.13 Existing ICF-IID.  The term "existing ICF -IID" shall mean an ICF -IID that has 
obtained licensure prior to the adoption of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.14 Governing Body . There shall be an organized governing body, or designated 
persons so functioning, that has the overall responsibility, for the conduct of the 
ICF-IID, in a manner consistent with the objective of making available high quality 
client care . The term "governing body" shall mean an individual or individuals 
identified by the ICF -IID that exercise general policy, budget, and operating 
direction over the ICF -IID; and provides, monitors, and revises as necessary 
policies and operating directions which ensure the n ecessary staffing, training, 
resources, equipment, and environment to provide individuals with active treatment 
and to provide for their health and safety at all times. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.15  Infectious Medical Waste.  The term "infectious medical waste" includes solid or 
liquid wastes which may contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity 
such that exposure to the waste by a susceptible host has been proven to result in 
an infectious disease.  For purposes of this regulation, the following wastes shall be 
considered to be infectious medical wastes: 
<<<PAGE 848>>>
 
848 
  
1. Waste resulting from the care of clients and animals who have Class I and (or) 
II diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules 
and regulations governing reportable diseases as defined by the Mississippi 
State Department of Health; 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biological, discarded lie and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components. 
4. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, 
broken glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious 
agents; 
5. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.16 Intermediate Care for the Intellectually and/or Developmentally Disabled 
(ICF-IID) Facility either governmental or private who provides group living 
arrangements for four (4) or more persons who are unrelated to the operator and 
whose primary purpose is to provide health or rehabilitative services, active 
treatment, to individuals with intellectu al or developmental disabilities and to 
provide food, shelter, and personal care whether any such place be organized or 
operated for profit or not. These ICF -IID services may be provided in an existing 
ICF-IID or a group home under the jurisdiction of an ICF-IID.   
1. In an ICF -IID Residential Community Home,  these services shall be 
provided in group living arrangements for no more than six (6) clients who are 
unrelated to the operator.     
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.17 Individual Program Plan (IPP).  Each client must have an individual program 
plan that is developed by an interdisciplinary team that represents the professions, 
disciplines or service areas relevant to identifying the client’s needs as described 
by the comprehensive functional assessments. This IPP shall be prepared within 30 
days after admission. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.18 Interdisciplinary Team:    The Interdisciplinary team is composed of those 
individuals (professionals, paraprofessionals and non -professionals) who possess 
the knowledge, skills, and expertise necessary to accurately identify the 
<<<PAGE 849>>>
 
849 
  
comprehensive array of the individual’s needs and design a program which is 
responsive to those needs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.19 License.  The term "license" shall mean the document issued by the licensing 
agency and signed by the State Health Officer of the Mississippi State Department 
of Health.  Licensure shall constitute authority to receive clients and perform the 
services included wi thin the scope of these rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.20 Licensed Practical Nurse.  The term "licensed practical nurse" shall mean a person 
who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing as a Licensed 
Practical Nurse. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.21 Licensee.  The term "licensee" shall mean the person to which the license is issued 
and upon whom rests the responsibility for the operation of the institution in 
compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.22 IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s).   A whole blood test used in to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection.   The IGRA blood test 
used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.23 Licensing Agency.  The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi State 
Department of Health  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.24 Licensure Violation . The failure of an ICF -IID or an ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home to comply with the minimum standards or requirements 
contained within this Chapter 49. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.25 Mantoux Test.  A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one -tenth 
(0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative -tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm with 
a needle and syringe.  The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and seventy-
two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to the size of 
the induration.  The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on 
<<<PAGE 850>>>
 
850 
  
the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition for “significant 
tuberculin skin test”).  This test is used to evaluate the likelihood that a person is 
infected with M. tuberculosis. The Mantoux (TST) test should be administered only 
by persons certified in the intradermal technique.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.26 Medical Waste.  The term "medical waste" means all waste generated in direct 
client care or in diagnostic or research areas that is non-infectious.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.27 New ICF-IID.  The term "new ICF -IID" shall mean an ICF -IID or an ICF -IID 
Residential Community Home that applies for licensure after the adoption of these 
regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.28 Nurse Practitioner/Physician Assistant .  The term “nurse practitioner” shall 
mean a person who is currently licensed by the Mississippi Board of Nursing as a 
nurse practitioner. The term “physician assistant” shall mean a physician assistant 
who is currently licensed as such by the Mississippi Board of Medical Licensure. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.29 Nutritional Assessment: A nutritional assessment is conducted to assess 
nutritional status and includes determination of appropriateness of diet, adequacy 
of total food intake and the skills associated with eating, including chewing, 
sucking and swallowing disorders, food service practices, and monitoring and 
supervision of one’s own nutritional sta tus.  A Registered Dietician shall provide 
ongoing evaluation and assessment  when individual needs are identified and, at 
minimum, on a quarterly basis and more often if indicated.   The Registered 
Dietician shall be notified for intervention as appropriate  when a  change in 
nutritional status, weight loss or weight gain is  noted.  The initial nutritional 
assessment shall be completed within 30 days after admission. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.30 Person.  The term "person" shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, 
corporation, company, association, or joint stock association, or any licensee herein 
or the legal successor thereof. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.31 Personal Care .  The term "personal care" shall mean assistance rendered by 
personnel of the ICF-IID for clients in performing one or more of the activities of 
daily living which includes, but is not limited to, the bathing, walking, excretory 
functions, feeding, personal grooming, and dressing of such clients. 
<<<PAGE 851>>>
 
851 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.32 Pharmacist.  The term "pharmacist" shall mean a person currently licensed to 
practice pharmacy in Mississippi by the State Board of Pharmacy. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.33 Physician.  The term "physician" shall mean any person currently licensed in 
Mississippi by the Mississippi State Board of Medical Licensure. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.34 Plan of Correction.  Plan of Correction shall mean a plan developed by the ICF -
IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential Community Home and approved by the 
licensure agency that describes the action the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID 
Residential Community Home will take to correct the  licensure violation(s) and 
specifies the date by which these licensure violation(s) will be corrected.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.35 Program Director:  The term “Program Director” shall mean a person who works 
under the authority of the Administrator or the governing authority of an ICF -IID 
to ensure that health or rehabilitative services, active treatment is provided to 
individuals with intellectual o r developmental disabilities. This individual shall 
have at a minimum a Master’s degree from an accredited four year college or 
university or graduation from a standard four -year high school and four years of 
experience working with individuals with intellectual or developmental disabilities. 
The Program Director must meet the qualifications of a Qualified Intellectual 
Disabilities Professional (QIDP). 
1. A Program Director shall have no more than 60 clients under their supervisory 
authority. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.36 Qualified Dietary Manager. 
1. ICFs-IID shall have the following at a minimum: 
a. A Dietetic Technician who has successfully graduated from a Dietetic 
Technician program accredited by the American Dietetic Association 
Commission on Accreditation and Approval of Dietetic Education and 
earns 15 hours of continuing education units every ye ar approved by the 
Dietary Manager's Association or the American Dietetic Association. 
b. A person who has successfully graduated from a didactic program in 
Dietetics approved by the American Dietetic Association Commission on 
Accreditation and Approval of Dietetic Education and earns 15 hours of 
<<<PAGE 852>>>
 
852 
  
continuing education units every year approved by the Dietary Manager's 
Association or the American Dietetic Association. 
c. A person who has successfully completed a Dietary Manager's Course 
approved by the Dietary Manager's Association and who passes the 
credentialing examination and earns 15 hours of continuing education units 
every year approved by the Dietary Manager's Association or the American 
Dietetic Association. 
d. A person who has successfully completed a Dietary Manager's Course 
approved by the Dietary Manager's Association and earns 15 hours of 
continuing education units every year approved by the Dietary Manager's 
Association or the American Dietetic Association – 
2. In addition, each ICF -IID Residential Community Home shall have the 
following at a minimum: 
a. A Licensed Registered Dietician (LRD) or a registered dietitian exempted 
from licensure by statute must be employed full time, part time, or on a 
consultant basis to ensure each client receives a nourishing, well balanced 
diet including modified and specia lly prescribed diets.   Onsite visits of at 
least monthly must be provided by the RD to ensure compliance to written 
menus, prescribed diets and meal service.  The RD will provide a nutritional 
assessment with recommended needs on an annual basis. Consultat ive 
written reports from the RD shall be kept on file in the ICF-IID.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
Rule 49.2.37 Qualified Intellectual Disabilities Professional (QIDP).   The QIDP must have 
at least one year of experience working directly with persons with intellectual and 
developmental disabilities; and is one of the following, a doctor of medicine 
osteopathy, a registered nurse, and/or an individual who holds a bachelor’ s degree 
in a professional category. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
Rule 49.2.38 Registered Nurse .  The term "registered nurse" shall mean a person who is 
currently licensed by the Nurses' Board of Examination and Registration of 
Mississippi Board of Nursing as a registered nurse.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.39 Restraint.  The term "restraint" shall include any means, physical or chemical, 
which is intentionally used to restrict the freedom of movement of a person.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 853>>>
 
853 
  
Rule 49.2.40 Surveyor.  The term "surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on a 
contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting surveys, 
inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the licensing 
agency’s responsibility for licensure and regulation of ICFs-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.41 Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters or greater 
is significant (or positive) in the following: 
1. Persons known to have or suspected of having human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV). 
2. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
3. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous tuberculosis. 
4. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown). 
5. An induration of ten (10) millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all 
other persons tested in Mississippi.  A tuberculin skin test is recorded in 
millimeters of induration.  For accurate results, measure the widest diameter of 
the palpable induration transverse (across) the arm. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.2.42 Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who will 
periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to reduce the 
likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If the initial 
tuberculin-test result is c lassified as negative, a second test is repeated one (1) to 
three (3) weeks later.  If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably 
represents a boosted reaction.  If the second test is also negative, the person is 
classified as not infected.  A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate 
new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3      INSPECTION 
Rule 49.3.1 Inspections Required.  Each ICF-IID for which a license has been issued shall be 
inspected by the licensing agency by persons delegated with authority by the 
licensing agency at such intervals as the licensing agency may direct.  The licensing 
agency and/or its authorized rep resentatives shall have the right to inspect 
construction work in progress.  New ICFs-IID shall not be licensed without having 
first been inspected for substantial compliance with these rules, regulations, and 
minimum standards. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 854>>>
 
854 
  
Subchapter 4      CLASSIFICATION OF AN ICF -IID OR AN ICF -IID RESIDENTIAL     
COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.4.1 ICF-IID.  To be classified as an ICF -IID or an ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home, the ICF -IID shall comply with the following staffing 
requirements: 
1. Minimum requirements for nursing staff shall be arranged or employed so that 
licensed nursing staff are sufficient to care for clients’ health needs. Individuals 
on a medical care plan shall receive 24 -hour nursing services as indicated by 
that plan. Indiv iduals not on a medical care plan shall receive services as 
indicated by the assessment, the IPP, and in accordance with any changes in 
health status. 
2. ICF-IID staffing is met when there are sufficient numbers of competent, trained 
staff to provide active treatment; and when there are sufficient numbers of staff 
to provide individuals’ health and safety. The ICF -IID must have available 
enough staff to carry out and monitor the various professional interventions in 
accordance with the stated goals and objectives of every individualized program 
plan.  
 
3. The ICF-IID must ensure for the availability of physician services 24 hours per 
day.  Procedures must be established that provide steps to be followed when the 
designated physician is not available. Staff should be aware of procedures for 
contacting physicians in the event of an emergency. 
4. Each ICF-IID and/or Residential Community Home shall have the following 
personnel as a minimum:  
a. Program Director:  There shall be a Program Director responsible for 
ensuring that all clients in the ICF-IID are following a specific IPP to meet 
their needs as an individual.  The Program Director will ensure the clients’ 
records are properly maintained and reflects the pr ogramming the client is 
receiving 
b. There should be sufficient numbers of QIDPs to accomplish the job of 
providing an active treatment program to each client in an integrated, 
coordinated manner, and to monitor the active treatment program for each 
client.  
c. Professional Program Staff : Each client must receive the professional 
program services needed to implement the active treatment program defined 
by each client’s IPP.   The ICF -IDD must have enough qualified 
professional staff to carry out and monitor the various professional 
interventions in accordance with the stated goals and objectives of every 
IPP.  Professional program staff must be licensed, certified, or registered as 
applicable, to provide professional services as required by State Licensure. 
<<<PAGE 855>>>
 
855 
  
d. Program staff responsible for therapeutic services must have at least a 
Master’s degree in a behavioral health or related field and hold current 
licensure as one of the following:  a Psychologist from the MS Board of 
Psychology, a Licensed Professional Counselor from th e MS Board of 
Licensed Professional Counselors, or a Licensed Certified Social Worker 
from the MS State Board of Examiners of Social Workers and Marriage & 
Family Therapists.  Professional credentialing through the MS Department 
of Mental Health as a Certified Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 
Therapist, Licensed Clinical Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 
Therapist, Certified Mental Health Therapist, and Licensed Clinical Mental 
Health Therapist is also accepted.    
 
e. Social Worker: A Social Worker licensed by the Mississippi State Board 
of Examiners of Social Workers and Marriage & Family Therapists.  A 
social worker may hold current licensure as a Licensed Bachelor Social 
Worker, Licensed Master Social Worker or Licensed Certified  Social 
Worker. 
 
f. Recreational Therapist:   To be designated as a professional recreation 
staff member an individual must have a bachelor’s degree in recreation or 
in a specialty area such as dance, music, or physical education. 
g. Direct Support Personnel and/or Professionals.   The ICF -IID must 
provide sufficient direct support professionals to manage and supervise 
clients in accordance with their IPP.  At any time, each ICF -IID is 
responsible for staffing as appropriate based on the required number of staff 
to carry out the goals and objectives of each client’s IPP.  
5. All staff involved in food service shall be trained in food and beverage safety 
and handling procedures through a certification program accredited by the 
ANSI Conference for Food Protection. 
6. There must be responsible trained staff on duty on a 24 hour basis (when clients 
are present) to respond to injuries and symptoms of illness, and to handle 
emergencies. The staff should be knowledgeable of each client’s IPP. There 
shall be at least two (2) employees on duty in the ICF-IID at all times seven (7) 
days a week, 24 hours a day, in the event of an emergency with a designated 
person in charge on each shift.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13   
Subchapter 5 THE LICENSE 
Rule 49.5.1 License.  A license shall be issued to each ICF -IID that meets the requirements as 
set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 856>>>
 
856 
  
Subchapter 6  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 
Rule 49.6.1  Application. Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency on forms provided by the licensing agency which 
shall contain such information as the licensing agency may require. The application 
shall require reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability to comply with these rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 49.6.2 Fees. Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or revoked, 
shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the Mississippi 
State Department of Health, either by business check, money order, or electronic 
means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are non-refundable.  
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.6.3      Name of ICF-IID. Every ICF-IID shall be designated by a permanent and 
distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and shall not be 
changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and receiving 
written approval of the change from the licensing agency. Such notice shall 
specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed. The words 
"hospital", "sanatarium", "sanatorium", "clinic" or any other word which would 
reflect a different type of ICF-IID shall not appear in the title of an ICFIID. Only 
the official name by which the ICF-IID is licensed shall be used in telephone 
listings, stationery, advertising, etc. Two or more facilities shall not be licensed 
under a similar name. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 49.6.4 Number of Beds. Each application for license shall specify the maximum number 
of beds in the ICF -IID as determined by Rule 49.2.3 of these regulations. The 
maximum number of beds for which the ICF-IID is licensed shall not be exceeded. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Subchapter 7   LICENSING 
Rule 49.7.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set forth the 
name of the ICF-IID, the location, the name of the licensee, the classification of the 
ICF-IID , the type of building, the bed capacity for which the ICF -IID is licensed, 
and the license number. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.7.2 Separate License.  Separate license shall be required for ICF -IIDs maintained on 
separate premises even though under the same management.  However, separate 
<<<PAGE 857>>>
 
857 
  
license are not required for buildings on the same grounds which are under the same 
management. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.7.3 Posting of License .  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
license premises and shall be available for review by an interested person. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.7.4 License Not Transferable .  The license for an ICF -IID is not transferable or 
assignable to any other person except by written approval of the licensing agency 
and shall be issued only for the premises named in the application.  The license 
shall be surrendered to the licensing agency on change of ownership, licensee, name 
or location of the institution, or in the event that the institution ceases to be operated 
as an ICF-IID.  In event of change of ownership, licensee, name or location of the 
ICF-IID, a new application shall be filed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.7.5 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31 following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.7.6 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable by the licensee. 
1. Filing of an application for renewal of licensee. 
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee as mandated in Rule 49.6.2. 
3. Approval of an annual report by the licensing agency. 
4. Maintenance by the ICF-IID of minimum standards in its physical facility, staff, 
services and operation as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 8   DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 49.8.1 Denial or Revocation of License :  Hearing and Review.  The licensing agency 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee is authorized 
to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that there has 
been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements established under the 
law and these regulations.  Also, the following shall be grounds for denial or 
revocation of license. 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license. 
<<<PAGE 858>>>
 
858 
  
2. A willful or repeated violation by the licensee of any of the provisions of §43 -
11-1 et seq., of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or of the rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards established by the licensing agency. 
3. Use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs by the licensee or other personnel 
of the home, to the extent which threatens the well -being or safety of the 
resident. 
4. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
5. Publicly misrepresenting the home and/or its services. 
6. Permitting, aiding, and abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
7. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of residents and 
employees of said facilities provided that this provision shall not be construed 
to have any reference to healing practices authorized by law.  Detrimental 
practices include but are not necessarily limited to: 
a. Cruelty to clients or indifference of their needs which are essential to their 
general well being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a client. 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of the client. 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a client. 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant when 
required by the client's condition. 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a client's conditions become critical. 
g. Admission of a client whose condition demands care beyond the level of 
care provided by the ICF-IID as determined by its classification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 9  PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING DENIAL OR 
REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
Rule 49.9.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency will provide an opportunity for a 
fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with administrative 
decisions made in the denial or revocation of a license or for adverse actions or who 
qualifies pursuant to Subchapter 8 to appeal 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by certified mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of 
<<<PAGE 859>>>
 
859 
  
the date of notification the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty 
(30) days from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee 
shall be given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing.    
2. The licensing agency shall notify the licensee of a ban on all admissions 
imposed as a result of immediate jeopardy survey findings. The ban on 
admissions will be imposed five (5) calendar days after the receipt of the notice 
by the licensee of the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home. 
A hearing must be requested within five (5) calendar days of receipt of the 
notice.  In addition, the licensing agency shall provide notice to the licensee 
related to compensation and per diem costs for a tem porary manager and/or 
state monitoring as applicable.  Within 15 days of receipt of the notice, the ICF-
IID or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home shall pay the bill or request 
an administrative hearing to contest the costs for which it was billed.  The  
licensing agency shall fix a date not less than ten (10) days from the date of 
such service at which time the licensee of the ICF-IID or the ICF-IID residential 
community home shall be given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing.   
3. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered 
mail to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or served personally 
upon the applicant or licensee. 
4. The decision revoking, suspending, denying the application of license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served upon the applicant 
or licensee; however in matters involving the revocation, suspension, or denial 
of an application or license, or adverse actions imposed by the licensing agency 
as a result of immediate jeopardy survey findings resulting in a ban on all 
admissions, and compensation and per diem costs related to a temporary 
manager and/or state monitoring as applicable, the applicant or licensee may 
within such thirty (30) day period, appeal the decision to the Chancery Court 
pursuant to §43 -11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended.  An 
additional period of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.9.2 Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating an 
institution for the aged or infirm (e.g. ICF -IID and/or a ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home ) without a license shall be declared in violations of these 
regulations and Chapter 451 of the Laws of Mississippi of the Regular Legislative 
Session of 1979 and subject to the penalties specified in §18 thereof. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 860>>>
 
860 
  
Subchapter 10 ADMINISTRATION:  THE AUTHORITY FOR 
ADMINISTRATION FOR INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES 
FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES  
Rule 49.10.1 Responsibility.  The governing authority, the owner, or the person(s) designated 
by the governing authority shall be the supreme authority in an ICF-IID responsible 
for the management, control, and operation of the institution including the 
appointment of qualified staff. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.10.2 Organization.  Each ICF-IID should establish a written organizational plan, which 
may be an organizational chart that clearly establishes a line of authority, 
responsibilities, and relationships.  Written personnel policies and job descriptions 
shall be prepared and given to each employee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.10.3 Relationship of staff to Governing Authority.  The administrator, personnel, and 
all auxiliary organizations shall be directly or indirectly responsible to the 
governing authority. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 11 THE LICENSEE 
Rule 49.11.1 Responsibility.  The licensee shall be the person who the licensing agency will 
hold responsible for the operation of the home in compliance with these regulations.  
The licensee may serve as the administrator or may appoint someone to be the 
administrator.  The license e shall be responsible for submitting to the licensing 
agency the plans and specifications for the building, the applications for license, 
and such reports as are required. 
1. Initial Application.  The licensee shall submit the following with the initial 
application: 
a. References in regard to personal character, temperament, and experience 
background from three (3) responsible persons not related to him and/or her.  
The licensing agency reserves the right to make investigations from its own 
source regarding the character of the applicant. 
b. Whether the governing body will be a private proprietary, partnership, 
corporation, governmental, or other (non -profit, church, etc.).  If a 
partnership, the full name and address of each partner.  If a corporation or 
other, the name, addresses, and title of each officer.  If governmental, the 
unit of government. 
<<<PAGE 861>>>
 
861 
  
2. Application for License .  Application for license or relicense shall be 
submitted in form and content pursuant to the instructions of the licensing 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 12 ADMINISTRATOR 
Rule 49.12.1 Responsibility. 
1. There shall be a licensed administrator in an ICF -IID with authority and 
responsibility for the operation of the ICF -IID in all its administrative and 
professional functions subject only to the policies enacted by the governing 
authority and to such orders  as it may issue.  The administrator shall be the 
direct representative of the governing authority in the management of the ICF-
IID and shall be responsible to said governing authority for the proper 
performance of duties. 
2. There shall be a qualified individual present in the ICF -IID responsible to the 
administrator in matters of administration who shall represent him or her during 
the absence.  The person shall not be a client of the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.12.2 Qualifications.  The administrator and/or program director(s) shall be chosen 
primarily for their administrative ability to establish proper working relationship 
with physicians, nurse practitioners/physician assistants, and employees of the ICF-
IID. 
1. The administrator shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age. 
2. The administrator shall be of reputable and responsible character and in such 
state of physical and mental health as will permit him or her to satisfactorily 
direct the activities and services of the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 13 FINANCIAL 
Rule 49.13.1 Accounting.  Accounting methods and procedures should be carried out in 
accordance with a recognized system of good business practice.  The method and 
procedure used should be sufficient to permit annual audit, accurate determination 
of the cost of operation and the cost per client per day. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 862>>>
 
862 
  
Rule 49.13.2 Financial Structure.  All facilities shall have a financial plan which guarantees 
sufficient resources to meet operating cost at all times and to maintain standards 
required by these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.3 Admission Agreement.  Prior to or at the time of admission, the administrator and 
the client or the client’s responsible party shall execute in writing a financial 
agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed in two or more copies, 
one copy given to the client or his sponsor, and one copy placed on file in the 
licensed ICF-IID. As a minimum this agreement shall contain: 
1.  Basic charges agreed upon (room, board, laundry, nursing, and/or personal 
care). 
2. Period to be covered in the charges. 
3. Services for which special charges are made. 
4. Agreement regarding refund for any payments made in advance. 
5. An explanation of services/care to be provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.4 No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee and the client 
or his responsible party which will relieve the licensee of responsibility for the 
protection of the person and of the rights of the individual admitted to the ICF-IID 
for care, as set forth in these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.5 A record of all sums of money received from each client shall be kept up -to-date 
and available for inspection. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.6 The client or his lawful agent shall be furnished a receipt signed by the lawful agent 
of the institution for all sums paid over to the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.7 Neither the licensee nor any employee shall misuse or misappropriate any property 
real or personal, belonging to a client of the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 863>>>
 
863 
  
Rule 49.13.8 Undue influence or coercion shall not be used in procuring a transfer of funds or 
property or in procuring a contract or agreement providing for payment of funds or 
delivery of property belonging to a client of the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.9 Agreements between an ICF-IID and a client relative to cost of care shall include 
adequate arrangements for such emergency medical or hospital care as may be 
required by the client. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.10 No licensee, owner, or administrator of an ICF -IID; a member of their family; an 
employee of the ICF-IID; or a person who has financial interest in the home shall 
act as the legal guardian for a client of the ICF -IID.  This requirement shall not 
apply if the client is related within the third degree as computed by civil law. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.13.11 Client Admission.  Prior to initial licensure of each ICF-IID, a written schedule for 
client admission shall be developed and submitted to the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 14 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)  
Rule 49.14.1 The licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan utilizing 
the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The plan must 
include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of terrorism or man-made 
or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. The final 
draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department of Health, 
or their designates, for  conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  Additio nal plan criteria or a specified 
EOP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) critical areas of consideration are: 
1. Communications - Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format and a 
frequency as required by the Office of EOP. 
2. Resources and Assets 
3. Safety and Security 
4. Staffing 
<<<PAGE 864>>>
 
864 
  
5. Utilities  
6. Clinical Activities.  
7. Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually 
or as directed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response. Written 
evidence of current approval or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Resp onse, shall accompany all applications for 
ICF-IID license renewals. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.14.2 ICF-IID and ICF-IID Residential Community Home Fire Preparedness 
1. Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. 
Employees shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
2. Written Records.  Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill. 
3. A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in a conspicuous place and kept current.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 15 PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
Rule 49.15.1 Administration Facilities .  Each ICF-IID shall provide an office space and/or 
administrative office(s). 
1. As a minimum, the office space and/or administrative office(s) shall be 
provided with a desk, file drawer or cabinet, and related office equipment and 
supplies. 
2. Each ICF -IID caring for twenty -five (25) or more clients should provide a 
separate room(s) for these facilities. 
3. Each ICF-IID should provide a waiting room or space for the public. 
4. ICF-IID Residential Community Homes are excluded from the requirements set 
forth in Rule 49.15.1. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.15.2 Communication Facilities.  Each ICF-IID and/or ICF-IID Residential Community 
Home shall have an adequate number of telephones and extensions to summon help 
in case of fire or other emergency, and these shall be located so as to be quickly 
accessible from all parts of the building . The telephone shall be listed under the 
official licensed name of the facility. 
<<<PAGE 865>>>
 
865 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 16 RECORDS AND REPORTS 
Rule 49.16.1 General.  Each ICF -IID or ICF -IID Residential Community Home shall submit 
such records and reports as the licensing agency may request. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.2 Annual Report.  An annual report shall be submitted to the licensing agency by 
each ICF-IID and/or ICF -IID Residential Community Home upon such uniform 
dates and shall contain such information in such form as the licensing agency 
prescribes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.3 Criminal History Record Checks .   Pursuant to Section 43 -11-13, Mississippi 
Code of 1972, the covered entity shall require to be preformed a disciplinary check 
with the professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if 
any disciplinary action has been taken again st the employee by the agency, and a 
criminal history record check on: 
1. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient care or 
services and who is employed on or after July 01, 2003, and 
2. Every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, who has 
documented disciplinary action by his or her present employer. 
3. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired on or after 
July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care until the results 
of the criminal history record check revealed no disqualifying record or the 
employee has been granted a waiver.  Provided the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background check, 
any person may be employed and provide direct patient care on a temporary 
basis pending the results of the criminal history recor d check but any 
employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be voidable, 
if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check and no waiver is 
granted. 
4. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a guilty 
plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of the 
following crimes which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a pardon 
has not been granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to be 
employed at the licensed ICF-IID: 
a. possession or sale of drugs 
b. murder 
<<<PAGE 866>>>
 
866 
  
c. manslaughter 
d. armed robbery 
e. rape 
f. sexual battery 
g. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23(g), Mississippi Code of 1972 
h. child abuse 
i. arson 
j. grand larceny 
k. burglary 
l. gratification of lust 
m. aggravated assault 
n. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
5. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, with 
the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and evidence of 
submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing agency must be on 
file and maintained b y the ICF -IID prior to the new employees first date of 
employment.  The covered entity shall maintain on file evidence of verification 
of the employee’s disciplinary status from any applicable professional licensing 
agency and of submission and/or completi on of the criminal record check, the 
signed affidavit, if applicable, and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter 
addressing the individual’s suitability for such employment. 
6. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency 
shall require every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 
2003, to sign an affidavit stating that he or she does not have a criminal history 
as outlined in paragraph (3) above. 
7. From and after December 31, 2003, no employee of a covered entity hired 
before July 01, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care unless the 
employee has signed an affidavit as required by this section.  The covered entity 
shall place the affidavit in the employee’s personnel file as proof of compliance 
with this section. 
8. If a person signs the affidavit required by this section, and it is later determined 
that the person actually had been convicted of or pleaded guilty or nolo 
contendere to any of the offenses listed herein, and the conviction or pleas has 
<<<PAGE 867>>>
 
867 
  
not been reversed on appeal or a pardon has not been granted for the conviction 
or plea, the person is guilty of perjury as set out in Section 43-11-13, Mississippi 
Code of 1972.  The covered entity shall immediately institute termination 
proceedings again st the employee pursuant to the ICF -IID’s policies and 
procedures. 
9. The covered entity may, in its discretion, allow any employee unable to sign 
the affidavit required by paragraph (7) of this subsection or any employee 
applicant aggrieved by the employment decision under this subsection to appear 
before the covered entity ’s hiring officer, or his or her designee, to show 
mitigating circumstances that may exist and allow the employee or employee 
applicant to be employed at the covered entity.  The covered entity, upon report 
and recommendation of the hiring officer, may gra nt waivers for those 
mitigating circumstances, which shall include, but not be limited to: (1) age at 
which the crime was committed; (2) circumstances surrounding the crime; (3) 
length of time since the conviction and criminal history since the conviction;  
(4) work history; (5) current employment and character references; and (6) other 
evidence demonstrating the ability of the individual does not pose a threat to 
the health or safety of the patients in the licensed ICF-IID. 
10. The licensing agency may charge the covered entity submitting the fingerprints 
a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
11. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check reveal 
no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) weeks of 
the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee applicant with 
a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the covered entity, or 
his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee applicant’s suitability 
for employment based on his or her criminal history record check.  An 
employee applicant may use that letter fo r a period of two (2) years from the 
date of the letter to seek employment at any covered entity licensed by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health without the necessity of an additional 
criminal record check.  Any covered entity presented with the let ter may rely 
on the letter with respect to an employee applicant’s criminal background and 
is not required for a period of two (2) years from the date of the letter to conduct 
or have conducted a criminal history check as required in this subsection. 
12. For individuals contacted through a third party who provide direct patient care 
as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal history 
record check. 
13. Pursuant to Section 43-11-13, Mississippi Code of 1972, the licensing agency, 
the covered entity, and their agents, officer, employees, attorneys, and 
representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in good faith for any 
employment decision or action taken  under this section.  The presumption of 
good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the evidence in any civil 
action.  No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their agents, officers, 
<<<PAGE 868>>>
 
868 
  
employees, attorneys and representatives shall be held liable in any 
employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of discrimination is 
made regarding an employment decision authorized under this section. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.4 Employee Health Screening.  All staff of an ICF-IID and/or ICF-IID Residential 
Community Home shall receive a health screening by a licensed physician, 
registered nurse, or nurse practitioner/physician assistant prior to employment and 
annually thereafter.  The extent of the screening shall be determined by committee 
consisting of at least a licensed physician, nurse practitioner/physician assistant or 
a registered nurse, and the ICF-IID administrator. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.5 Employee Health Screening.  All staff of an ICF-IID and/or ICF-IID Residential 
Community Home shall receive a health screening by a licensed physician, 
registered nurse, or nurse practitioner/physician assistant prior to employment and 
annually thereafter.  The extent of the screening shall be determined by committee 
consisting of at least a licensed physician, nurse practitioner/physician assistant or 
a registered nurse, and the ICF-IID administrator. 
1. There shall be written evidence on file at the ICF -IID indicating that such a 
committee met to develop a policy for the ICF -IID employee health screening 
program.  This policy shall include: 
a. What constitutes an adequate health screening. 
b. The health professional designated to conduct the screening. 
2. The written policy shall be evaluated periodically by said committee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.6 Employee Testing for Tuberculosis 
1. Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to contact 
with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one of the 
following methods: 
 
a. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual for signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis by medical personnel; or 
 
b. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and read by a 
licensed medical/nursing person certified in the techniques of tuberculin 
testing and an evaluation of the individual for signs and symptoms of 
tuberculosis by a licensed Physician, Physician’s Assistant, Nurse 
Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
<<<PAGE 869>>>
 
869 
  
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may 
be administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no 
more than 30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the 
individual must not be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of 
the RBIR where patients have access until receipt of the results of the 
IGRA/assessment or at least the first of the two-step Mantoux test has 
been administered/read and assessment for the signs and symptoms 
completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in millimeters. 
Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and assessment must be 
documented in accordance with accepted standards of medical/nursing practice 
and must be placed in the individual’s personnel file no later than 7 days of 
the individual’s date of employment. If an IGRA is performed, results and 
quantitative values must be documented. 
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive Mantoux 
skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease (TB) that last longer 
than three weeks (regardless of the size of the skin test or results of the 
IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a board certified Radiologist and 
be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a licensed physician within 72 hours. The 
employee shall not be allowed to work in any area where clients have routine 
access until evaluated by a physician/nurse practitioner/physician assistant and 
approved to return. Exceptions to this requirement may be made if the employee 
is asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation of 
having received a course of tuberculosis prophylactic therapy approved by 
the Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) Tuberculosis Program 
for tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide documentation of 
having received a course of multi-drug chemotherapy approved by the MSDH 
Tuberculosis Program; or 
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant tuberculin skin 
reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux testing  or 
the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and symptoms must be 
conducted and must be maintained as part of the employee’s annual health 
screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is NOT required unless symptoms of 
active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin test and 
<<<PAGE 870>>>
 
870 
  
a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of the two- step 
Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in the employees’ 
personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who has not 
been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test cannot be 
documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has documentation that 
the employee has had a negative TB skin test within the past 12 months, a single 
test performed thirty (30) days prior to employment or immediately upon hire 
will fulfill the two-step requirements. As above, the employee shall not have 
contact with clients or be allowed to work in areas of the RBIR to which clients 
have routine access prior to reading the skin test, completing a signs and 
symptoms assessment and documenting the results and findings. 
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for Disease 
Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health regarding baseline 
employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB testing and education. 
Staff exposed to an active infectious case of tuberculosis shall be treated as 
contacts and be managed appropriately. Individuals found to have a significant 
Mantoux tuberculin skin test reaction and a chest x-ray not suggestive of 
active tuberculosis, shall be evaluated by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant for treatment of latent tuberculin infection 
 
. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.7 Admission Record -Personal Information .  Each ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID 
Residential Community Home shall prepare a record on each client at the time of 
admission on which the following minimum information shall be recorded: name; 
date of admittance; address at the time of admittance; race; sex; m arital status; 
religious preference; date of birth; name; address, and telephone number of person 
responsible for client and his/her relationship to him/her; and name and telephone 
number of physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant, and the diagnosis as 
defined by the current version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders (DSM). The date and reason for discharge shall be entered upon 
discharge of a client.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.16.8 Reporting of Tuberculosis Testing . The ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home shall report and comply with the annual MSDH TB Program 
surveillance procedures. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 17 CLIENTS’ RIGHTS 
<<<PAGE 871>>>
 
871 
  
Rule 49.17.1 General.  The ICF-IID shall maintain written policies and procedures regarding the 
rights and responsibilities of clients.  These written policies and procedures shall 
be established in consultation with clients or responsible parties.  Written policies 
and procedures regarding clients' rights shall be made available to clients or their 
guardian, next of kin, sponsoring agency or agencies, or lawful representative and 
to the public.  There shall be documented evidence that the staff of the ICF -IID is 
trained and involved in the implementation of these policies and procedures.  In -
service on clients' rights and responsibilities shall be conducted annually.  These 
rights and responsibilities shall be posted throughout the ICF-IID for the benefit of 
all staff and clients. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.17.2 Clients’ Rights.  The clients' rights policies and procedures ensure that each client 
admitted to the ICF-IID: 
1. is fully informed, as evidenced by the client's written acknowledgment, prior to 
or at the time of admission and during stay, of these rights and is given a 
statement of the ICF -IID's rules and regulations and an explanation of the 
client's responsibility to obey all reasonable regulations of the ICF -IID and to 
respect the personal rights and private property of other clients; 
2. is fully informed, and is given a written statement prior to or at time of 
admission and during stay, of services available in the ICF -IID, and of related 
charges including any charges for services covered by the ICF -IID basic per 
diem rate; 
3. is assured of adequate and appropriate medical care, is fully informed by a 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant of his medical conditions 
unless medically contraindicated (as documented by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assista nt in his medical record), is afforded the 
opportunity to participate in the planning of his medical treatment, to not be 
limited in his/her choice of a pharmacy or pharmacist provider in accordance 
with state law, as referenced in House Bill 1439, which states that the ICF-IID 
shall not limit a client’s choice of pharmacy or pharmacy provider if that 
provider meets the same standards of dispensing guidelines required of long 
term care facilities, to refuse to participate in experimental research, and to 
refuse medication and treatment after fully informed of and understanding the 
consequences of such action; 
4. is transferred or discharged only for medical reasons, or for his welfare or that 
of other clients, or for nonpayment for his stay (except as prohibited by sources 
of third-party payment), and is given a two weeks advance notice in writing to 
ensure orderly transfer or discharge.  A copy of this notice is maintained in his 
medical record; 
<<<PAGE 872>>>
 
872 
  
5. is encouraged and assisted, throughout his period of stay, to exercise his rights 
as a client and as a citizen, and to this end may voice grievances, has a right of 
action for damages or other relief for deprivations or infringements of his right 
to adequate and proper treatment and care established by an applicable statute, 
rule, regulation or contract, and to recommend changes in policies and services 
to ICF -IID staff and/or to outside representatives of his choice, free from 
restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal; 
6. may manage his personal financial affairs, or is given at least a quarterly 
accounting of financial transactions made on his behalf should the ICF -IID 
accept his written delegation of this responsibility to the ICF-IID for any period 
of time in conformance with State law;  
7. is free from mental, physical, and/or verbal abuse; and exploitation and/or 
misappropriation of client property 
8. is free from restraint except by order of a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant, or unless it is determined that the client is a 
threat to himself or to others.  Physical and chemical restraints shall be used for 
medical conditions that warrant the use of a restraint.  Restraint is not to be used 
for discipline or staff convenience.  The ICF -IID must have policies and 
procedures addressing the use and monitoring of restraint.  A physician order 
for restraint must be countersigned within 24 h ours of the emergency 
application of the restraint; 
9. is assured security in storing personal possessions and confidential treatment of 
his personal and medical records, and may approve or refuse their release to 
any individual outside the ICF-IID, except, in the case of his transfer to another 
health care institution, or as required by law of third-party payment contract; 
10. is treated with consideration, respect, and full recognition of his dignity and 
individuality, including privacy in treatment and in care for his personal needs; 
11. is not required to perform services for the ICF -IID that are not included for 
therapeutic purposes in their individual program plan; 
12. may associate and communicate privately with persons of his choice, may join 
with other clients or individuals within or outside of the ICF -IID to work for 
improvements in client care, and send and receive his personal mail unopened, 
unless medically contr aindicated (as documented by his physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record); 
13. may meet with, and participate in activities of, social, religious and community 
groups at his discretion, unless medically contraindicated (as documented by 
his physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant in his medical record); 
14. may retain and use his personal clothing and possessions as space permits, 
unless to do so would infringe upon rights of other clients, unless medically 
<<<PAGE 873>>>
 
873 
  
contraindicated (as documented by his physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant in his medical record); 
15. if married, is assured privacy for visits by his/her spouse; if both are inpatients 
in the ICF -IID, they are permitted to share a room, unless medically 
contraindicated (as documented by the attending physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant in the medical record); and 
16. is assured of exercising his civil and religious liberties including the right to 
independent personal decisions and knowledge of available choice.  The ICF -
IID shall encourage and assist in the fullest exercise of these rights and shall 
communicate rights in a manner that is understandable to the client. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.17.3 All rights and responsibilities specified in paragraph (1) through (16) of Section 
Rule 49.17.2,  as they pertain to (1) a client adjudicated incompetent in accordance 
with State law, (2) a client who is found by his physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant to be medically incapable of understanding these 
rights, or (3) a client who exhibits a communication barrier, devolve to and shall be 
exercised by the client's guardian, next of kin, sponsoring agencies, or 
representative payee (except when the ICF-IID is representative payee. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 18 STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 49.18.1 Orientation.  Each employee, prior to direct contact with clients, shall receive 
thorough orientation to the position, the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home, and its policies which shall include but not be limited to:  
  
1. Overview of the mission and the policies and procedures of he ICF-IID; 
2. Behavior Management and Intervention; 
3. Basic First Aid; 
4. Confidentiality; 
5. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) ; 
6. Fire Safety & Emergency Procedures; 
7. Food Safety & Handling Procedures; 
8. Hand-washing; 
9. Infection Control;  
<<<PAGE 874>>>
 
874 
  
10. Population Specific Training; 
11. Rights of Individuals Receiving Services; 
12. Standard Precautions; 
13. Vulnerable Persons Act; 
14. Lift/Transfer Procedures; 
15. Vehicle & Safety Transportation Procedures; 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.18.2 In-service Training.  The ICF -IID must provide each employee with initial and 
continuing training that enables the employee to perform his or her duties 
effectively, efficiently, and competently. For employees that work with clients, 
training must focus on skills and compete ncies directed toward clients 
developmental, behavioral, and health needs. Staff must be able to demonstrate the 
skills and techniques necessary to administer interventions to manage the 
inappropriate behavior of clients, and the skills necessary to implem ent the 
individual program plans for each client for whom they are responsible.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.18.3 Annual in-service training programs.  Annual in-service training programs shall 
be provided to all employees on an on-going basis and include but not be limited to 
12 hours related to communication and interpersonal skills, first aid procedures, 
infection control, safety and emergency procedures including abdominal thrust and 
choking procedures , promoting client’s independence, respecting clients’ rights, 
personal care skills, and six (6) hours that are population specific. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.18.4 Training Records. A written record shall be maintained of all orientation and in -
service training sessions. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.18.5 Administrator Mentoring .  Administrators for ICFs -IID shall be scheduled to 
spend two (2) concurrent days with the licensing agency or its designee for the 
purpose of training and mentoring.  Placement of an administrator with the 
licensing agency may include, but not be limited  to, assignments within the 
licensing agency’s central offices or placement with a survey team.  Any costs 
associated with placements for the purposes of this section shall be borne by the 
licensed ICF-IID at which the administrator is employed.  The administrator shall 
keep confidential and not disclose to any other persons any identifying information 
<<<PAGE 875>>>
 
875 
  
about any person or entity that he/she learned while observing operations as 
required by this section, except as otherwise mandated by law.  
1. This section shall apply to administrators who: 
a. received their license from the Mississippi Board of Nursing Home 
Administrators on or after January 1, 2002; and 
b. have been employed by a licensed ICF -IID for less than six (6) months, 
during which time the placement must be completed 
2. This section shall not apply to administrators who: 
a. received a license from the Mississippi Board of Nursing Home 
Administrators on or prior to December 31, 2001; or 
b. who were previously employed by the licensing agency in a surveyor 
capacity. 
3. Failure to successfully complete the placement required under this section shall 
disqualify the administrator from serving in such capacity for a licensed ICF -
IID until a placement is completed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.18.6 Residential Community Home Administrator Mentoring. Administrator 
Mentoring for Residential Community Homes under the jurisdiction of the 
Department of Mental Health will be provided at the time and format designated 
by the Department of Mental Health and documentation of such shall be provided 
to the Depar tment of Health to be maintained with the ICF -IID licensure 
application. 
1. This section shall go into effect with the effective date of these regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 19 MEDICAL, NURSING, AND PERSONAL SERVICES:  PHYSICAL 
FACILITIES 
Rule 49.19.1 ICF-IID and ICF -IID Residential Community Homes.   Medical, nursing, and 
personal service shall be provided in an area which shall provide privacy, dignity 
and safety appropriate to the necessary intervention required under a client’s IPP. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.19.2  The maximum nursing unit shall be sixty (60) beds in an ICF-IID.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 876>>>
 
876 
  
Rule 49.19.3 ICF-IID and/or ICF-IID Residential Community Home 
1. Bedrooms. 
a. Location. 
i. All client bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be 
below grade.  Window area shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of the 
required floor area.  The window sill shall not be over thirty -six (36) 
inches from the floor. 
ii. Client bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of 
unpleasant odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
iii.  Existing ICF-IID:  Client bedrooms shall be directly accessible from 
the main corridor of the nursing unit providing that accessibility from 
any public space other than the dining room will be acceptable.   In no 
case shall a client bedroom be used for access to another client bedroom. 
iv. All client bedrooms in an ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home shall be so located that the client can travel from 
his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, toilet or 
bathing area without having to go through another client bedroom. 
v. ICF-IID Residential Community Homes: Each client shall have his/her 
own private bedroom. 
2. Floor Area.  Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be as follows: Private 
room one-hundred (100) square feet, Multi -bed room eighty (80) square feet, 
per client in existing ICf -IIDs.  This provision shall apply to initial licensure, 
new construction, additions, and renovations. 
3. Provisions for Privacy. 
a.  In an ICF-IID, cubicle curtains, screening, or other suitable provisions for 
privacy shall be provided in multi -bed client bedrooms.  Cubicle curtains 
shall completely enclose the bed from three (3) sides.   
4. Accommodations for Clients.  The minimum accommodations for each client 
shall include: 
a. Bed.  The client shall be provided with either an adjustable bed or at a 
minimum a regular single bed, according to needs of the client, with a good 
grade mattress at least four (4) inches thick.  Cots and roll -a-way beds are 
prohibited for client use.  Full and half bed rails shall be available to assist 
in safe care of clients. 
b. Pillows, linens, and necessary coverings. 
<<<PAGE 877>>>
 
877 
  
c. Chair. 
d. Bedside cabinet or table. 
e. Storage space for clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings including 
rod for clothes hanging. 
f. Means at bedside for notifying staff as indicated in the client’s IPP. 
g. Bed pans or urinals for clients who need them. 
h. Over-bed tables as required. 
5. Bed Maximum.  Bedrooms in ICF-IID shall be limited to two (2) beds in ICFs 
larger than 8 beds.  ICF -IID Residential Community Homes with six (6) or 
fewer beds are limited to one (1) individual per bedroom. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.19.4 Special Care Room.  Each ICF-IID shall have a special care room which shall be 
a single bedroom with at least a private half bath (lavatory and water closet).  There 
shall be a special care room for each thirty (30) beds or major fraction thereof.  A 
special care room may be located anywhere in the building rather than a certain 
number per station. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.19.5 ICF-IID Nurses’ Station. 
1. Each ICF-IID shall have a nurses' station for each nursing unit.  The nurses' 
station includes as minimum the following: 
a. Annunciator board or other equipment for client's call. 
b. The minimum areas of the medicine storage/preparation room shall be 
seventy-five (75) square feet. 
c. Storage space for clients' medical records and nurses' charts. 
d. Lavatory or sink with disposable towel dispenser. 
e. Desk or counter top space adequate for recording data and administering 
medications charting purposes by physicians, nurse practitioners/physician 
assistants, and nurses.  In an ICF-IID Residential Community Home, there 
shall be sufficient space to allow f or confidentiality and secure medical 
records. 
2. The nurses' station area shall be well lighted. 
<<<PAGE 878>>>
 
878 
  
3.  It is recommended that a nurses' lounge with toilet be provided for nursing 
personnel adjacent to the station.  A refrigerator for the storage of drugs shall 
be provided at each nurses’ station.  Drugs and food for beverages for the clients 
may be stored together only if separate and secure compartments or containers 
are provided for the storage of drugs. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.19.6 Utility Room.  Each ICF -IID shall provide a separate utility room for soiled and 
clean client care equipment, such as bed pans, urinals, etc.  The soiled utility room 
shall contain, as a minimum, the following equipment. 
1. Provision for cleaning utensils such as bed pans, urinals, et cetera. 
2. Lavatory or sink and disposable towel dispenser.  The utility room for clean 
equipment shall have suitable storage. 
3. In an ICF -IID Residential Community Home there shall be a closet and/or 
laundry space that is adequate for separation of clean and soiled laundry. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.19.7 Toilet and Bathing Facilities in an ICF-IID 
1. Lavatory, toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided in each ICF-IID nursing 
unit as follows: 
a. Bathing Facilities    2 per nursing unit 
b. Combination toilet and lavatory  2 per nursing unit 
2. As a minimum, showers shall be thirty (30) inches by sixty (60) inches without 
curbing. 
3. Handrails shall be provided for all tubs, showers, and commodes in an ICF-IID 
and/or an ICF-IID Residential Community Home. 
4. In addition to the requirements set forth above, a lavatory shall be provided in 
each client bedroom or in a toilet room that is directly accessible from the 
bedroom in an ICF-IID. 
5. In addition to the requirements set forth above, a toilet shall be located in a room 
directly accessible from each client bedroom in an ICF-IID.  The minimum area 
for a room containing only a toilet shall be three (3) feet by six (6) feet in an 
ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 879>>>
 
879 
  
Rule 49.19.8  Other rooms and areas.  In addition to the above facilities, each nursing unit in 
an ICF-IID shall include the following rooms and areas: 
1. linen closet; 
2. wheelchair space. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 20 REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION 
Rule 49.20.1 Physical Examination Required.  Each client shall be given a complete physical 
examination 30 days prior to admission and annually thereafter, including a history 
of tuberculosis exposure and an assessment for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis, 
by a licensed physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant.  The findings shall 
be entered as part of the Admission Record.  The report of the examination shall 
include: 
1. Medical history (previous illnesses, drug reaction, emotional reactions, etc.). 
2. Major physical and mental condition. 
3. Current diagnosis. 
4. Orders, dated and signed, by a physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant for the immediate care of the client to include medication treatment, 
activities, and diet.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.20.2 Tuberculosis (TB).  Admission Requirements to Rule Out Active Tuberculosis 
(TB) 
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior to the 
client’s admission to the “Licensed ICF-IID”: 
a. TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed Physician, Physician’s 
Assistant or a Licensed Nurse Practitioner, and 
b. A chest x-ray taken and a written interpretation. 
2. Admission to the ICF-IID shall be based on the results of the required tests as 
follows: 
a. Clients with an abnormal chest x -ray and/or signs and symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two -step Mantoux tuberculin skin 
test (TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA (blood test) 
drawn and results documented within 30 days prior to the patient’s 
admission to the “Licensed ICF-IID”.  Evaluation for active TB shall be at 
<<<PAGE 880>>>
 
880 
  
the recommendation of the MSDH and shall be prior to admission.  If TB is 
ruled out and the first step of the TST is negative, the second step of the 
two-step TST shall be completed and documented within 10 -21 days of 
admission.  TST administration and rea ding shall be done by certified 
personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, TST (first and/or second step) is 
not done. 
b. Clients with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or symptoms of TB shall 
have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with the initial 
step of a the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 days prior to the 
day of admission.  IF TST is done, the second step shall be completed within 
10-21 days of the first step.  TST administration and reading shall be done 
by certified personnel. If an IGRA ( blood test) is done, a TST is not done 
(first or second step). 
c. Clients with a significant TST  OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall be 
monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB (cough, sputum 
production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night sweats, especially if the 
symptoms have lasted longer than three weeks) and if these symptoms 
develop, shall have an evalu ation for TB per the recommendations of the 
MSDH within 72 hours.  
d. Clients with a non significant TST  or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual tuberculosis testing within thirty (30) 
days of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing is used, 
IGRA testing should continue to be used rather than TST testing. 
e. Clients with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood test) 
on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse practitioner or 
physician or physician’s assistant.   
f. Active or suspected Active TB Admission.  If a client has or is suspected 
to have active TB, prior written approval for admission to the ICF -IID is 
required from the MSDH TB State Medical Consultant. 
g. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
i. Client has prior documentation of a significant TST/ positive IGRA. 
ii. Client has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment regimen 
for latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
iii. Client is excluded by a licensed physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant due to medical contraindications. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 881>>>
 
881 
  
Rule 49.20.3 Transfer to another ICF-IID or return of a client to respite care shall be based 
on the above tests (Section 119.02 (2)) if done within the past 12 months and the 
patient has no signs and symptoms of TB. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.20.4 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office.   If a client has signs or 
symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the licensed ICF-IID shall notify the 
MSDH, the hospital, transporting staff and the physician’s office prior to 
transferring the client to a hospital.  Appropriate isolation and eval uation shall be 
the responsibility of the hospital and physician.  If a client has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission or readmission to the ICF-IID 
is required from the MSDH TB State Consultant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 21 CLIENT CARE 
Rule 49.21.1 Service Beyond Capability of the Home .  Whenever a client requires 
hospitalization or medical, nursing, or other care beyond the capabilities and 
facilities of the home, prompt effort shall be made to transfer the patient/client to a 
hospital or other appropriate medical facility. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 22 PHYSICIAN SERVICES 
Rule 49.22.1 General.  A physician shall personally approve in writing a recommendation that 
an individual be admitted to an ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.22.2 Designated physician .  Each client shall have a designated physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant who is responsible for their care.  In the absence of 
the designated physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant, another 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant shall be designated to supervise 
the client medical care. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.22.3 Emergency physician .  Each ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID Residential Community 
Home shall ensure that emergency care protocols are in place and that staff have 
been adequately trained.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.22.4 Physician visit .  The client shall be seen by a physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant every sixty (60) days. 
<<<PAGE 882>>>
 
882 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 23 REHABILITATIVE SERVICES 
Rule 49.23.1 Rehabilitative services.  Clients shall be provided rehabilitative services as needed 
upon the written orders of an attending physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant. 
1. The therapies shall be provided by a qualified therapist. 
2. Appropriate equipment and supplies shall be provided. 
3. Each client’s medical record shall contain written evidence that services are 
provided in accordance with the written orders of an attending physician or 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 24 PHARMACY SERVICES  IN AN ICF-IID AND/OR ICF-IID 
RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.24.1 General.  The ICF-IID and/or ICF-IID Residential Community Home shall provide 
routine drugs, emergency drugs and biologicals to its clients or obtain them by 
agreement. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.24.2 Policies and procedures .  Each ICF -IID shall have policies and procedures to 
assure the following: 
1. Accurate acquiring; 
2. Receiving; 
3. Dispensing; 
4. Storage; and 
5. Administration of all drugs and biologicals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.24.3 Consultation.  Each ICF-IID shall obtain the services of a licensed pharmacist who 
will be responsible for: 
1. Establishing a system of records of receipt and disposition of all controlled 
drugs and to determine that drug records are in order and that an account of all 
controlled drugs are maintained and reconciled; 
<<<PAGE 883>>>
 
883 
  
2. Provide drugs regimen review in the ICF -IID on each client every thirty (30) 
days by a licensed pharmacist; 
3. Report any irregularities to the attending physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant and the director or nursing; and 
4. Records must reflect that the consultation pharmacist monthly report is acted 
upon. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.24.4 Labeling of drugs .  Each ICF -IID shall follow the Mississippi State Board of 
Pharmacy labeling requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.24.5 Disposal of drugs. 
1. Unused portions of medicine may be given to a discharged client or the 
responsible party upon orders of the prescribing physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. 
2. Drugs and pharmaceuticals discontinued by the written orders of an attending 
physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant or left in the ICF -IID on 
discharge or death of the client will be disposed of according to the Mississippi 
State Board of Pharmacy disposal requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.24.6 Poisonous Substances .  All poisonous substances such as insecticides, caustic 
cleaning agents, rodenticide, and other such agents must be plainly labeled and kept 
in locked cabinet or closet.  No substances of this type shall be kept in the following 
areas:  kitchen, dining area, food storage room or pantry, medicine cabinet or drug 
room, client's bedroom or toilet, public rooms, or spaces. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 25 MEDICAL RECORDS SERVICES 
Rule 45.25.1 Medical Records Management.  
1. A medical record shall be maintained in accordance with accepted professional 
standards and practices on all clients admitted to the ICF -IID.  The medical 
records shall be completely and accurately documented, readily accessible, and 
systematically organized to facilitate retrieving and compiling information. 
2. A sufficient number of personnel, competent to carry out the functions of the 
medical record service, shall be employed.  In an ICF IID Residenial 
<<<PAGE 884>>>
 
884 
  
Community Home, medical record services can be provided through a 
contractual service.  
3. The ICF -IID shall safeguard medical record information against loss, 
destruction, or unauthorized use. 
4. All medical records shall maintain the following information:  identification 
data and consent form; assessments of the client's needs by all disciplines 
involved in the care of the client; medical history and admission physical exam; 
annual physical exams ; physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant 
orders; observation, report of treatment, clinical findings and progress notes; 
and discharge summary, including the final diagnosis. 
5. All entries in the medical record shall be signed and dated by the person making 
the entry.  Authentication may include signatures, written initials, or computer 
entry.  A list of computer codes and written signatures must be readily available 
and maintained under adequate safeguards. 
6. All clinical information pertaining to the clients stay shall be centralized in the 
client's medical records. 
7. Medical records of discharged clients shall be completed within thirty (30) days 
following discharge. 
8. Medical records are to be retained for five (5) years from the date of discharge 
or, in the case of a minor, until the client reaches the age of twenty -one (21), 
plus an additional three (3) years. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 26 SOCIAL SERVICES AND CLIENT ACTIVITIES IN AN  ICF -IID 
AND/OR ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.26.1 Program. Each ICF -IID or ICF -IID Residential Community Home shall provide 
services to assist all clients in dealing with social and related problems through one 
or more social services staff or through arrangements with an appropriate outside 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.26.2 Records. Social services information concerning each client shall be obtained and 
kept.  This information shall cover social and emotional factors related to the 
client's condition and information concerning his home situation, financial 
resources and relationships with other people. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 885>>>
 
885 
  
Rule 49.26.3 Training.  All nursing personnel and employees having contact with client shall 
receive social service orientation and in -service training toward understanding 
emotional problems and social needs of clients. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.26.4 Personnel. At least one person in each ICF -IID shall be designated as being 
responsible for the social services aspect for care in the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.26.5 Office Space.  Office space shall be provided for social service personnel.  The 
office shall be accessible to clients and ensure privacy for interviews. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 27 ACTIVITY COORDINATOR 
Rule 49.27.1 Activity Coordinator.  An individual shall be designated as being in charge of 
client activities.  This individual shall focus on the inclusion aspect of ensuring 
persons with disabilities contribute to the community and fully participate in all 
activities.   Assessments in the areas of sensorimotor development and leisure skills 
shall be conducted with individualized training programs developed to improve 
functional abilities throughout all environments. This individual shall have 
experience and/or training in developing activities based upon personal choice, or 
shall have consultation made from a qualified recreation therapist or other 
professional regarding best practice and determining activities that are of 
meaningful -- value to the person with disabilities. Participation in activities should 
be documented in the client’s record. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.27.2 Activity Program .  Provisions shall be made for suitable recreational and 
entertainment activities for client according to their needs and interests.  These 
activities are an important adjunct to daily living and are to encourage restoration 
to self-care and resumption of normal activities.  Variety in planning shall include 
some outdoor activities in suitable weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.27.3 Supplies and Equipment.  The ICF-IID shall make available a variety of supplies 
and equipment adequate to satisfy the individual interests of clients. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.27.4 Living and/or Recreational Room(s) In An ICF-IID 
<<<PAGE 886>>>
 
886 
  
1. Each ICF -IID shall provide adequate living room(s), day room(s) and/or 
recreational room(s) for clients and visitors.  Each ICF -IID should provide at 
least two areas for this purpose-one for small groups such as private visits with 
relatives and friends and one for larger group activities.  A minimum of eighteen 
(18) square feet per bed shall be provided. 
2. Dining area.  A dining area shall be provided in ICF-IID adequate to set at least 
three-fourths of the maximum capacity of the ICF -IID.  The dining area may 
also be used for social, recreational, and/or religious services when not in use 
as a dining ICF-IID.  A minimum of fifteen (15) square feet per person for three-
fourths (3/4) of the capacity of the ICF-IID shall be provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.27.5 Special Activities Area .  Each ICF -IID should provide space for hobbies and 
activities that cannot be included in a day room, living room, or recreational room. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.27.6 Outside Area.  Adequate outside space should be provided for the use of clients in 
favorable weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 28 FOOD AND  NUTRITION SERVICES:  GENERAL IN AN ICF -IID 
AND IN AN ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.28.1 Direction and Supervision.  Food service is one of the basic services provided by 
the ICF-IID to its clients.  Careful attention to adequate nutrition and prescribed 
modified diets contribute appreciably to the health and comfort to the client and 
stimulate his desire to achieve a nd maintain a higher level of self -care.  The ICF -
IID shall provide clients with well-planned, attractive, and satisfying meals which 
will meet their nutritional, social, emotional, and therapeutic needs.  The Food and 
Nutrition Services Department of an I CF-IID shall be directed by a Registered 
Dietitian, a certified dietary manager, or a qualified dietary manager.  If a qualified 
dietary manager is the director, he/she must receive frequent, regularly scheduled 
consultation from a licensed dietitian, or a  registered dietitian exempted from 
licensure by statute.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 29 FOOD HANDLING PROCEDURES IN AN ICF -IID AND AN ICF -
IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME  
Rule 49.29.1 Safe Food Handling Procedures .  Food shall be prepared, held, and served 
according to current Mississippi State Department of Health (MSDH) Food Code 
Regulations with appropriate records maintained to assure compliance with the 
MSDH Food Code Regulations. 
<<<PAGE 887>>>
 
887 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 30 MEAL SERVICE IN AN ICF-IID AND AN ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL 
COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.30.1 Meal and Nutrition.  At least three (3) meals in each twenty-four (24) hours shall 
be provided.  The daily food allowance shall meet the current recommended dietary 
allowance of the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the 
National Academy of Science  adjusted for individual needs.  A standard food 
planning guide (e.g., My Plate) or Nutrient Based Menu (determined by nutritional 
analysis) shall be used for planning and food purchasing.  It is not intended to meet 
the nutritional needs  of all clients.  This guide must be adjusted to consider 
individual differences.  Some clients will need more or less due to age, size, gender, 
physical activity, or state of health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.2 Menu.  The menu shall be planned and written at least one week in advance.  The 
current week's menu shall be approved by the dietitian, dated, posted in the kitchen 
and followed as planned.  Substitutions and changes on all diets shall be 
documented in writing.  Copies of menus and substitutions shall be kept on file for 
at least thirty (30) days. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.3 Timing of Meals. A time schedule for serving meals to clients shall be established.  
Meals shall be served during customarily -accepted timeframes. There shall be no 
more than fourteen (14) hours between evening meal and breakfast meal.  There 
may be 16 hours between the evening meal and breakfast meal if approved by the 
client involved and a substantial snack (including protein) is served before bedtime. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.4 Modified Diets.  Modified diets which are a part of medical treatment shall be 
prescribed in written orders by the physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant.  All modified diets shall be planned in writing, approved by a Registered 
Dietician, and posted along with regular menus.  Liberalized Geriatric Diets are 
encouraged for elderly clients when there is a need for moderate diet therapy.  A 
current diet manual shall be available to personnel.  The Registered Dietitian shall 
approve all modified d iet menus, the diet manual used in the ICF -IID and/or the 
ICF-IID Residential Community Home, and possess a current diet manual.  Refer 
also to Rule 49.2.34 for Registered Dietician requirements in an ICF -IID 
Residential Community Home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.5 Food Preparation. Foods shall be prepared by methods that conserve optimum 
nutritive value, flavor, and appearance.  Also, the food shall be acceptable to the 
<<<PAGE 888>>>
 
888 
  
individuals served.  A file of tested recipes shall be maintained to assure uniform 
quantity and quality of products. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.6 Food Supply . Supplies of perishable foods for at least a twenty -four (24) hour 
period and or non -perishable foods for a three (3) day period shall be on the 
premises to meet the requirements of the planned menus.  The non-perishable foods 
shall consist of commercial type processed foods. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.30.7 Serving of Meals. 
1. Table should be of a type to seat not more than four (4) or six (6) clients.  Clients 
who are not able to go to the dining room shall be provided sturdy tables (not 
TV trays) of proper heights.  For those who are bedfast or infirm tray service 
shall be provided in their rooms with the tray resting on a firm support. 
2. Personnel eating meals or snacks on the premises shall be provided facilities 
separate from and outside of food preparation, tray service, and dishwashing 
areas. 
3. Foods shall be attractively and neatly served.  All foods shall be served at 
proper temperature.  Effective equipment shall be provided and procedures 
established to maintain food at proper temperature during serving. 
4. All trays, tables, utensils and supplies such as china, glassware, flatware, 
linens and paper placemats, or tray covers used for meal service shall be 
appropriate, sufficient in quantity and in compliance with the applicable 
sanitation standard. 
5. Food Service personnel.  A competent person certified through an ANSI 
accredited food and beverage safety and handling program shall be designated 
by the administrator to be responsible for the total food service of the home.  
Sufficient staff shall be emp loyed to meet the established standards of food 
service.  Provisions should be made for adequate supervision and training of 
the employees. 
6. The Registered Dietitian shall provide at a minimum, quarterly in -services to 
the ICF-IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential Community Home staff on food 
safety and/or other needed topics related to Food and Nutrition Services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 31 FOOD SERVICE AREAS IN AN ICF-IID AND/OR ICF-IID  
RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
<<<PAGE 889>>>
 
889 
  
Rule 49.31.1 Floors.  Floors in food service areas shall be of such construction so as to be 
easily cleaned, sound, smooth, non-absorbent, and without cracks or crevices.  
Also, floors shall be kept in good repair. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.2 Walls and Ceilings. Walls and ceilings of food service areas shall be of tight and 
substantial construction, smoothly finished, and painted in a light color.  The walls 
and ceilings shall be without horizontal ledges and shall be washable up to the 
highest level reached by splash and spray.  Roofs and walls shall be maintained free 
of leaks.  All openings to the exterior shall be provided with doors or windows that 
will prevent the entrance of rain or dust during inclement weather. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.3 Screens and Outside Openings .  Openings to the outside shall be effectively 
screened.  Screen doors shall open outward and be equipped with self -closing 
devices.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.4 Lighting. The kitchen, dishwashing area, and dining room shall be provided with 
well distributed and unobstructed natural light or openings.  Artificial light properly 
distributed and of an intensity of not less than thirty (30) foot candles shall be 
provided. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.5 Ventilation.  The food service area shall be ventilated in a manner that will 
maintain comfortable working conditions, remove objectionable odors and fumes, 
and prevent excessive condensations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.6 Employee Toilet Facilities . Toilet facilities with lockers shall be provided for 
employees in an ICF -IID.  Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in 
which food is prepared, stored, displayed or served, nor into any room in which 
utensils are washed or stored.  Toilet rooms shall have a lavatory and shall be well 
lighted and ventilated. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.7 Hand washing Facilities . Hand washing facilities with hot and cold water, soap 
dispenser and a supply of soap, and disposable towels shall be provided in all 
kitchens.  The use of a common towel is prohibited.  Hands shall not be washed in 
sinks where food is prepared or where utensils are cleaned. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 890>>>
 
890 
  
Rule 49.31.8 Refrigeration Facilities. Adequate refrigeration facilities, automatic in operation, 
for the storage of perishable foods shall be provided.  Refrigeration temperatures 
for storing perishable foods such as meats, dairy products, fruits, and vegetables 
shall be maintained at forty -one (41) degrees Fahrenheit.  Freezers shall be 
maintained at zero (0) degrees Fahrenheit or below.  All refrigerators shall be 
provided with a thermometer.  An ICF -IID with more than twenty -four (24) beds 
shall have commercial or institutional type refrigeration. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.9 Equipment and Utensil Construction .  Equipment and utensils shall be 
constructed so as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in good repair. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.31.10 Separation of Kitchen from Client Rooms and Sleeping Quarters . Any room 
used for sleeping quarters shall be separated from the food service area by a solid 
wall.  Sleeping accommodations such as a cot, bed, or couch shall not be permitted 
within the food service area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 32 AREAS AND EQUIPMENT IN AN ICF-IID 
Rule 49.32.1 Location and Space Requirements .  Food service facilities shall be located in a 
specifically designated area and shall include the following rooms and/or spaces:  
kitchen, dishwashing, food storage, and dining room. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.32.2 Kitchen. 
1. Size and Dimensions.  The minimum area of kitchen (food preparation only) 
for less than twenty -five (25) beds shall be a minimum area of two hundred 
(200) square feet.  In ICFs-IID with twenty five (25) beds to sixty (60) beds, a 
minimum of ten (10) square feet per bed shall  be provided.  In facilities with 
sixty-one (61) to eighty (80) beds, a minimum of six (6) square feet per bed 
shall be provided for each bed over sixty (60) in the home.  In facilities with 
eighty-one (81) to one hundred (100) beds, a m inimum of five (5) square feet 
per bed shall be provided for each bed over eighty (80).  In facilities with more 
than one hundred (100) beds proportionate space approved by the licensing 
agency shall be provided.  Also, the kitchen shall be of such size and dimensions 
in order to: 
a. Permit orderly and sanitary handling and processing of food. 
b. Avoid overcrowding and congestion of operations. 
<<<PAGE 891>>>
 
891 
  
c. Provide at least three (3) feet between working areas and wider if space is 
used as a passageway. 
d. Provide a ceiling height of at least eight (8) feet. 
2. Equipment.  Minimum equipment in the kitchen in an ICF-IID shall include: 
a. Range and cooking equipment.  Facilities with more than twenty -four (24) 
beds shall have institutional type ranges, ovens, steam cookers, fryers, etc., 
in appropriate sizes and number to meet the food preparation needs of the 
ICF-IID.  The cooking equipment shall be equipped with a hood vented to 
the outside as appropriate. 
b. Refrigerator and Freezers.  Facilities with more than twenty-four (24) beds 
shall have sufficient commercial or institutional type refrigeration/freezer 
units to meet the storage needs of the ICF-IID. 
c. Bulletin Board. 
d. Clock. 
e. Cook's table. 
f. Counter or table for tray set-up. 
g. Cans garbage (heavy plastic or galvanized). 
h. Lavatories, hand washing; conveniently located throughout the department. 
i. Pots, pans, silverware, dishes, and glassware in sufficient numbers with 
storage space for each. 
j. Pot and Pan Sink.  A three compartment sink shall be provided for cleaning 
pots and pans.  Each compartment shall be a minimum of twenty -four (24) 
inches by twenty-four (24) inches by sixteen (16) inches. A drain board of 
approximately thirty (30) inches s hall be provided at each end of the sink, 
one to be used for stacking soiled utensils and the other for draining clean 
utensils. 
k. Food Preparation Sink.  A double compartment food preparation sink shall 
provide for washing vegetables and other foods.   A drain board shall be 
provided at each end of the sink. 
l. Ice Machine.   At least one ice machine shall be provided.  If there is only 
one (1) ice machine in the ICF-IID it shall be located adjacent to but not in 
the kitchen.  If there is an ice machine located at nursing station, then ice 
machine for dietary sha ll be located in the kitchen. An ice machine is not 
<<<PAGE 892>>>
 
892 
  
required in an ICF -IID Group Home or ICF -IID Residential Community 
Home. 
m. Office.  An office shall be provided near the kitchen for the use of the food 
service supervisor.  As a minimum, the space provided shall be adequate for 
a desk, two chairs and a filing cabinet. 
n. Coffee Tea and Milk Dispenser.  (Milk dispenser not required if milk is 
served in individual cartons). 
o. Tray assembly line equipment with tables, hot food tables, tray slide, etc. 
p. Mixer.  Institutional type mixer of appropriate size. 
q. Food Processor. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.32.3 Dishwashing. Commercial or institutional type dishwashing equipment shall be 
provided in ICFs-IID with more than twenty-four (24) beds.  The dishwashing area 
shall be separated from the food preparation area.  If sanitizing is to be 
accomplished by hot water, a minim um temperature of one hundred eighty (180) 
degrees Fahrenheit shall be maintained during the rinsing cycle.  An alternate 
method of sanitizing through use of chemicals may be provided if sanitizing 
standards of the Mississippi State Department of Health Fo od Code Regulations 
are observed.  Adequate counter-space for stacking soiled dishes shall be provided 
in the dishwashing area at the most convenient place of entry from the dining room, 
followed by a disposer with can storage under the counter.  There sha ll be a pre -
rinse sink, then the dishwasher and finally a counter or drain for clean dishes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.32.4 Food Storage. A food-storage room with cross ventilation shall be provided in an 
ICF-IID.  Adequate shelving, bins, and heavy plastic or galvanized cans shall be 
provided.  The storeroom shall be of such construction as to prevent the invasion 
of rodents and insects, the seepage of dust and water leakage, or any other source 
of contamination.  The food -storage room should be adjacent to the kitchen and 
convenient to the receiving area.  The minimum area for a food-storage room shall 
equal two and one-half (2 1/2) square feet per bed and the width of the aisle shall 
be a minimum of three (3) feet. Food storage shall be maintained at 12 inches above 
the floor. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 33 SANITATION AND  SEWERAGE:  SANITATION IN THE ICF -IID 
AND/OR THE ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.33.1 Water Supply. 
<<<PAGE 893>>>
 
893 
  
1. If at all possible, all water shall be obtained from a community public water 
supply (CWS).   If not possible to obtain water from a community public water 
supply (CWS) source, the private water supply shall meet the approval of the 
local county health dep artment and/or the Mississippi State Department of 
Health. 
2. Water under pressure sufficient to operate fixtures at the highest point during 
maximum demand periods shall be provided.  Water under pressure of at least 
twenty (20) pounds per square inch shall be piped to all sinks, toilets, lavatories, 
tubs, showers, and other fixtures requiring water. 
3. It is recommended that the water supply into the ICF-IID can be obtained from 
two (2) separate water lines if possible. 
4. A dual hot water supply shall be provided.  The temperature of hot water to 
lavatories and bathing facilities shall not exceed one hundred fifteen (115) 
degrees Fahrenheit, nor shall hot water be less than one hundred (100) degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
5. Each ICF-IID shall have a written agreement for an alternate source of potable 
water in the event of a disruption of the normal water supply. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.33.2 Disposal of Liquid and Human Wastes. 
1. There shall be installed within the ICF-IID a properly designed waste disposal 
system connecting to all fixtures to which water under pressure is piped. 
2. All liquid and human waste, including floor-wash water and liquid waste from 
refrigerators, shall be disposed of through trapped drains into a public sewer 
system where such system is available. 
3. In localities where a public sanitary sewer is not available, liquid and human 
waste shall be disposed of through trapped drains into sewerage disposal system 
approved by the local county health department and/or the Mississippi State 
Department of Health.   The sewerage disposal system shall be of a size and 
capacity based on the number of clients and personnel housed and employed in 
the ICF -IID.  Where the sewerage disposal system is installed prior to the 
opening of the ICF-IID, it shall be assumed, unles s proven otherwise, that the 
system was designed for ten (10) or fewer persons. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.33.3 Premises. The premises shall be kept neat, clean, and free of an accumulation of 
rubbish, weeds, ponded water, or other conditions which would have a tendency to 
create a health hazard. 
<<<PAGE 894>>>
 
894 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.33.4 Control of insects, rodents, etc . The ICF -IID shall be kept free of ants, flies, 
roaches, rodents, and other insects and vermin.  Proper methods for their eradication 
and control shall be utilized. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.33.5 Toilet Room Cleanliness . Floors, walls, ceilings, and fixtures of all toilet rooms 
shall be kept clean and free of objectionable odors.  These rooms shall be kept free 
of an accumulation of rubbish, cleaning supplies, toilet articles, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.33.6 Garbage Disposal. 
1. Garbage must be kept in water-tight suitable containers with tight fitting covers.  
Garbage containers must be emptied at frequent intervals and cleaned before 
using again. 
2. Proper disposition of infectious materials shall be observed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 34 REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE  IN AN  ICF-IID AND/OR A ICF-
IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.34.1 Standards and Requirements.  All the requirements of the standards set forth in 
this section shall apply, without regard to the quantity of medical waste generated 
per month, to any generator of medical waste. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.34.2 Medical Waste.  
1. Medical waste must be kept in water-tight suitable containers with tight fitting 
covers.  Medical waste containers must be emptied at frequent intervals and 
cleaned before using again. 
2. Proper disposition of medical waste materials shall be observed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.34.3 Medical Waste Management Plan .  All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan that shall include, 
but is not limited to, the following: 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and Medical Waste: 
<<<PAGE 895>>>
 
895 
  
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a 
manner and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, 
does not provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, 
and minimizes exposure to the public. 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point 
of origin in the producing ICF-IID. 
c. Unless approved by the licensing agency or treated and rendered non -
infectious, infectious medical waste (except for sharps in approved 
containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing ICF -IID for more than 
seven days above a temperature of six (6) deg rees Celsius (equivalent to 
thirty-eight [38] degrees Fahrenheit).  Containment of infectious medical 
waste at the producing ICF -IID is permitted at or below a temperature of 
zero (0) degrees Celsius (equivalent to thirty -two [32] degrees Fahrenheit) 
for a period of not more than ninety (90) days without specific approval of 
the licensing agency. 
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separate from other 
wastes.  Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious 
medical waste shall be so secured so as to discourage access by 
unauthorized persons and shall be marked with prominent warning signs on, 
or adjacent to, the exterior of entry doors, gates, or lids.  Each container 
shall be prominently labeled with a sign using language to be determined 
by the licensing agency and legible during daylight hours. 
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have strength sufficient to 
preclude ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage.  The 
bags shall be securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or 
liquid wasted during storage, handling, or transport. 
f. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall 
be of a distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infectious 
waste.  Rigid containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled. 
g. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical 
waste unless the waste has been rendered noninfectious.  Sharps containers 
shall not be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the 
institution itself and shall not be placed for storage or transport in a portable 
or mobile trash compactor. 
h. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable 
containers as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling, or 
transport in disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums, or portable bins.  
<<<PAGE 896>>>
 
896 
  
The containment system shall be leak -proof, have tight fitting covers and 
be kept clean and in good repair: 
i. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall 
be thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a 
method specified by the licensing agency, unless the surfaces of the 
containers have been protected from contam ination by disposable liners, 
bags, or other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in I.E.  Approved 
methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation to 
remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures: 
i. Exposure to hot water at least one -hundred eighty (180) degrees 
Fahrenheit for a minimum of fifteen (15) seconds. 
ii. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with or immersion in one of 
the following for a minimum of three (3) minutes: 
1. Hypochlorite solution (500 ppm available chlorine). 
2. Phenolic solution (500 ppm active agent). 
3. Iodoform solution (100 ppm available iodine). 
4. Quaternary ammonium solution (400 ppm active agent). 
iii. Reusable pails, drums, or bins used for containment of infectious waste 
shall not be used for containment of waste to be disposed of as 
noninfectious waste or for other purposed except after being 
decontaminated by procedures as described in 133.03 (i) of this section. 
j. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste. 
k. Once treated and rendered non -infectious, previously defined infectious 
medical waste will be classified as medical waste and may be land-filled in 
an approved landfill. 
2. Treatment or disposal of infectious medical waste shall be by one of the 
following methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of 
the waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render it 
noninfectious.  Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be 
disposable as medical waste.  Operating procedures for steam sterilizers 
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
<<<PAGE 897>>>
 
897 
  
i. Adoption of standard written operating procedures for each steam 
sterilizer including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of 
container(s), closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, 
and maximum load quantity. 
ii. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each 
complete cycle to ensure the attainment of a temperature of one-hundred 
twenty-one (121) degrees Celsius (equivalent to two-hundred fifty [250] 
degrees Fahrenheit) for one -half (1/2) hour or lon ger, depending on 
quantity and density of the load, in order to achieve sterilization of the 
entire load.  Thermometers shall be checked for calibration at least 
annually. 
iii. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each container that is 
processed to indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
iv. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the 
center of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least 
monthly to confirm the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
v. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) 
above for period of not less than a year. 
c. By discharge to the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the Mississippi State Department of Health 
or other regulatory agency. 
d. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be disposed of by 
incineration or internment, unless burial at an approved landfill is 
specifically authorized by the Mississippi State Department of Health. 
e. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized 
by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and 
Toxic Substances.  Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide 
are examples of sterilants that, used  in accordance with manufacturer 
recommendation, will render infectious waste non-infectious.  Testing with 
Bacillus subtilis spores or other equivalent organisms shall be conducted 
quarterly to ensure the sterilization effectiveness of gas or steam treatment. 
f. Treatment and disposal of medical waste which is not infectious shall be by 
one of the following methods: 
i. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion 
of the waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
ii. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal 
ICF-IID or part of an ICF -IID where medical waste is placed in or on 
land, and which is not a treatment ICF-IID. 
<<<PAGE 898>>>
 
898 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 35 HOUSEKEEPING AND PHYSICAL PLANT IN AN ICF -IID 
AND/OR AN  ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOME 
Rule 49.35.1 Housekeeping Facilities and Services. 
1. The physical plant shall be kept in good repair, neat, and attractive.  The safety 
and comfort of the client shall be the first consideration. 
2. Janitor closets shall be provided with a mop-cleaning sink and be large enough 
in area to store house cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor closet 
area and equipment should be provided for the food service area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.35.2 Bathtubs, Showers, and Lavatories .  Bathtubs, showers, and lavatories shall be 
kept clean and in proper working order.  They shall not be used for laundering or 
for storage of soiled materials.  Neither shall these facilities be used for cleaning 
mops, brooms, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.35.3 Client Bedrooms .  Client bedrooms shall be cleaned and dusted as often as 
necessary to maintain a clean, attractive appearance.  All sweeping should be damp 
sweeping; all dusting should be damp dusting with a good detergent or germicide. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.35.4 Storage. 
1. Such items as beds, mattresses, mops, mop buckets, dust rags, etc. shall not be 
kept in hallways, corners, toilet or bathrooms, clothes closets, or client 
bedrooms. 
2. The use of attics for storage of combustible materials is prohibited. 
3. If basements are used for storage, they shall meet acceptable standards for 
storage and for fire safety. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 36  LAUNDRY:  GENERAL 
Rule 49.36.1 Commercial Laundry .  Facilities may use commercial laundries or they may 
provide a laundry within the institution. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 899>>>
 
899 
  
Subchapter 37  PHYSICAL FACILITIES 
Rule 49.37.1 Location and Space Requirements .  Each ICF -IID shall have laundry facilities 
unless commercial laundries are used.  The laundry shall be located in a specifically 
designated area, and there shall be adequate room and space for sorting, processing, 
and storage of soiled material.  Laundr y rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall 
not open directly into a client bedroom or food service area.  Soiled materials shall 
not be transported through the food service area.  If commercial laundry is used, 
separate satisfactory storage areas shall be provided  for clean and soiled linens.  
There shall be provided a clean linen storage area separate from the laundry area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.37.2 Ventilation.  Provisions shall be made for proper mechanical ventilation of the 
laundry.  Provisions shall be made to prevent the recirculation of air through the 
heating and air condition systems. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.37.3 Lint Traps.  Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for driers. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.37.4 Laundry Chutes.  When laundry chutes are provided they shall have a minimum 
diameter of two (2) feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and 
drain. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.37.5 Laundry Equipment .  Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately 
perform the laundry needs of the institution.  The equipment shall be installed to 
comply with all local and state codes. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 38  PHYSICAL PLANT:  GENERAL  
Rule 49.38.1 Building Classification. 
1. To qualify for a license, the ICF -IID shall be planned to serve the type of 
patients to be admitted and shall comply with the following: 
a. All facilities constructed after the effective date of these regulations shall 
comply with the building requirements set forth in the regulations. 
b. After the effective date of these regulations, all additions to facilities shall 
comply with the building requirements for a license.  Approval shall not be 
granted for an addition to an existing building which will increase the bed 
<<<PAGE 900>>>
 
900 
  
capacity unless the existing structure is basically sound and is to be brought 
into a condition of acceptable conformity with the current regulations. 
c. Authority to Waiver.  The licensing agency may waive certain requirements 
in these regulations at its discretion for facilities requesting licensure as an 
ICF-IID and/or an ICF -IID Residential Community Home provided the 
health and safety of clients will not be endangered. 
2. Renovations within the exterior walls of an ICF-IID shall in no case be of such 
nature as to lower the character of the structure below the applicable building 
requirements for the type of license held by the ICF-IID. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.2 Location.  All facilities established or constructed after the adoption of these 
regulations shall be located so that they are free from undue noise, smoke, dust, or 
foul odors and shall not be located adjacent to disposal plants, cemeteries, main line 
railroads, funeral home, airport, etc. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.3 Site. The proposed site for an ICF -IID must be approved by the licensing agency. 
Factors to be considered in approving a site in addition to the above may be 
convenience to medical and hospital services, approved water supply and sewerage 
disposal, public transportation, community services, services of an organized fire 
department, an availability to labor supply.  Not more than one-third (1/3) of a site 
shall be covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the licensing agency. 
One example whereb y approval may be granted is where the structure is to be 
placed in a very desirable location where the grounds are limited and very 
expensive.  Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have 
a living room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate 
for lack of required outside area. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.4 Local Restrictions.  The site and structure of all facilities shall comply with local 
building, fire and zoning ordinances.  Evidence to this effect signed by local 
building, fire, and zoning officials shall be presented. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.5 Transportation.  Facilities shall be located on streets or roads which have all 
weather surfaces.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities (if available). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 901>>>
 
901 
  
Rule 49.38.6 Communication.  There shall be not less than one telephone in the home and such 
additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in event of fire or other 
emergency.  The telephone shall be listed under the official licensed name or title 
of the home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.7 Occupancy.  No part of the ICF -IID may be rented, leased, or used for any 
commercial purpose not related to the operation of the home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.38.8 Basement. 
1. The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or more of its clear 
height is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining the building on 
all sides. 
2. No client shall be housed on any floor that is below ground level. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
Subchapter 39 SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR ICF -IIDS 
OR ICF-IID RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY HOMES 
Rule 49.39.1 New Construction, Additions, and Renovations .  When construction is 
contemplated either for new buildings, conversions, additions, or alterations to 
existing buildings, one set of plans and specifications shall be submitted to the 
licensing agency for review and approval.  The submission shall be ma de in not 
less than two stages preliminary and final.  Floor plans shall be drawn to scale of 
one-eight (1/8) inch to equal one (1) foot or one -fourth (1/4) inch to equal one (1) 
foot. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.2 Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which do 
not affect the structural integrity of the building, change functional operation, affect 
fire safety, or add beds or facilities or those for which the ICF -IID is licensed do 
not need to have plans submitted for review provided that a detailed explanation of 
the proposed alteration or remodeling is submitted to and approved by the licensing 
agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.3 First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans.:  First stage or preliminary plans shall 
include: 
<<<PAGE 902>>>
 
902 
  
1. Plot plan showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed building 
and any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, sidewalks, railroads, 
etc., all properly designated; and size, characteristics, and location of all 
existing public utilities. 
2. Floor plan showing over -all dimensions of building(s); location, size, and 
purpose of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and other 
openings with swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of all corridors 
and hallways; and location of stairs, elevators, dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and 
chimneys. 
a. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
b. A scaled drawing of one-fourth (1/4) inch to one (1) foot shall be submitted 
for the following areas: Kitchen, dishwashing area, nurses' station and 
utility room(s). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.4 Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications.:  Final stage or 
working drawings and specifications shall include: 
1. Architectural drawings 
2. Structural drawings 
3. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
4. Electrical drawings 
5. Detailed specifications 
6. Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual construction. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.5 Preparation of Plans and Specifications .  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by the 
licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.6 Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of an ICF -IID shall be submitted to and approved by 
<<<PAGE 903>>>
 
903 
  
the licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.7 Notification of Start of Construction.  The licensing agency shall be informed in 
writing at the time construction is begun. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.8 Inspections.  The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to the work for inspection whenever it is in preparation or 
progress, and the owner shall ascertain that proper facilities are made available for 
such access and inspection. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.9 Limit of Approval .  In construction delayed for a period of exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a new 
evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.10 Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal .  The water supply and sewerage 
disposal shall be approved by the local county health department and/or the 
Division of Sanitary Engineering, Mississippi State Department of Health.  No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse dispos al shall be 
installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended until complete 
plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have been so 
approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and final determination. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.39.11 Availability of Approved Plans:  Every licensed ICF-IID shall maintain, on the 
premises and available for inspection, a copy of current approved architectural 
plans and specifications. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 40   GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 49.40.1 Scope.  The provision of this section shall apply to all facilities except for those 
sections or paragraphs where a specific exception is granted for existing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 904>>>
 
904 
  
Rule 49.40.2 Structural Soundness and Repair; Fire Resistive Rating.  The building shall be 
structurally sound, free from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and 
painted at sufficient intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.3 Temperature.  Adequate heating and cooling shall be provided in all rooms used 
by clients so that a minimum temperature of seventy-five (75) to eighty (80) degrees 
Fahrenheit may be maintained. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.4 Lighting.  Each client's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum of ten (10) foot -candles of 
lighting for general use in client's room and a minimum of thirty (30) foot -candles 
of lighting for reading purposes.  All entrances, corridors, stairways, ramps, cellars, 
attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and service units shall have sufficient 
artificial lighting to prevent accidents and promote efficiency of service.  Night 
lights shall be provided in all corridors, stairways, toilets, and bathing rooms. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.5 Screens.  All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with tight 
fitting full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out and shall 
be equipped with self-closing devices. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.6 Floors.  All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks and be 
finished so that they can be easily cleaned.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.7 Walls and Ceilings.  All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction with an 
acceptable surface and shall be maintained in good repair.  Generally the walls and 
ceilings should be painted a light color. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.8 Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least eight (8) feet except that 
a height of seven (7) feet and six (6) inches may be approved for corridors or toilets 
and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed.  Exception may be made 
for existing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.9 Handrails. In an ICF-IID, handrails shall be installed on both sides of all corridors 
and hallways used by clients.  The handrails should be installed from thirty -two 
<<<PAGE 905>>>
 
905 
  
(32) inches to thirty-six (36) inches above the floors.  The handrails should have a 
return to the wall at each rail ending.  An exception may be made for existing 
facilities. In addition, grab bars shall be installed in at least one bathroom beside 
the toilet and beside the lavatory in an ICF-IID Residential Community Home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.10 Ramps and Inclines .  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of clients, 
shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in twelve (12) feet of run, shall be furnished 
with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both sides.  Exception 
may be granted for existing ramps and inclines on existing facilities. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.11 Call System.  A call system shall be in place in an ICF-IID at the nurses' station to 
receive client calls through a communication system to include audible and visual 
signals from bedrooms, toilets, and bathing facilities. In the residential community 
home setting, there shall be a communication system in place throughout the 
residence to address the immediate needs of the clients. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.40.12 Trash Chutes.  The installation and/or use of trash chutes is prohibited. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 41    FIRE SAFETY AND CONSTRUCTION 
Rule 49.41.1 Date of Construction and Life Safety Code Compliance. 
1. New buildings and/or building not previously approved for use as a 
Residential Community Home (6 [Six] clients or less), Small ICF/IID (16 
clients or less), or Large ICF/IID (More than 16 clients) on the effective date 
of these regulations shall comply with Chapter 32 “New Residential Board 
and Care” edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) effective on the date of 
application. 
 
2. Existing buildings and/or building not previously approved for use as a Small 
ICF/IID (16 clients or less) or Large ICF/IID (More than 16 clients) on the 
effective date of these regulations shall comply with Chapter 33 “Existing 
Residential Board and Care” edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.41.2 ICF-IID Required Rooms and Areas  
1. Client bedroom.  (See Rule 49.19.3) 
<<<PAGE 906>>>
 
906 
  
2. Special care room.  (See Rule 49.19.4) 
3. Nurses' Station.  (See Rule 49.19.5) 
4. Utility room.  (See Rule 49.19.6) 
5. Toilet and bathing facilities.  (See Rule 49.19.7) 
6. Clean linen storage.  Adequate areas shall be provided for storing clean linens 
which shall be separate from dirty linen storage. 
7. Wheelchair area.  Adequate area shall be provided for storage of wheelchairs. 
8. Kitchen.  (See Rule 49.32.2 – 49.32.4) 
9. Dining room.  The dining area shall be large enough to seat three -fourth (3/4) 
of the maximum capacity of an ICF -IID. The dining area can also be used for 
social, recreational, or religious activities.  It is recommended that a separate 
dining area be provided for personnel. 
10. Food storage.  A food storage room shall be provided convenient to the kitchen 
in all future licensed homes.  It should have cross ventilation.  All foods must 
be stored a minimum of twelve (12) inches above the floor. 
11. Day room or living room.  Adequate day or living room area shall be provided 
for clients or clients and guests.  These areas shall be designated exclusively for 
this purpose and shall not be used as sleeping area or otherwise.  It is 
recommended that at least two (2) such areas be provided and more in larger 
homes. 
12. Janitor closet.  At least one (1) janitor's closet shall be provided for each floor.  
The closet shall be equipped with a mop sink and be adequate in area to store 
cleaning supplies and equipment.  A separate janitor's closet shall be provided 
for the food service area. 
13. Garbage can cleaning and storage area. 
14. General storage.  A minimum area equal to at least five (5) square feet per bed 
shall be provided for general storage. 
15. Laundry.  If laundry is done in the institution, a laundry room shall be 
provided.  Adequate equipment for the laundry load of the home shall be 
installed.  The sorting, washing, and extracting process should be separated 
from the folding and ironing area-preferably in separate rooms. In addition refer 
to Subchapter 36, Laundry, General; and Subchapter 37, Physical Facilities. 
16. Separate toilet room  (lavatory and water closet) shall be provided for male 
and female employees. 
<<<PAGE 907>>>
 
907 
  
17. A separate toilet room with a door that can be locked shall be provided for the 
public. 
18. Food Service Supervisors Office. 
19. Social Services Office. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.41.3 Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A situation 
in which the ICF -IID’s failure to meet one or more licensure requirements has 
caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to a client. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.41.4 Ban on all Admissions A ban on all admissions to an ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID 
residential community home shall be imposed by the licensing agency when it has 
been determined by the licensing agency that the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID 
residential community home is not in compliance with program requirements or an 
immediate jeopardy is determined to exist based upon survey findings.   These 
deficiencies must be determined as Immediate Jeopardy as defined under Rule 
49.41.3.    
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 42 STATE MONITORING 
Rule 49.42.1 State Monitoring .  A State Monitor may oversee the correction of cited 
deficiencies in an ICF -IID or an ICF -IID residential community home as a 
safeguard against further harm to clients when a finding of noncompliance has 
resulted in harm to a client or when there is a situation that is likely to cause serious 
injury, harm, impairment or death to a resident 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 43 DIRECTED PLAN OF CORRECTION  
Rule 49.43.1 A Directed Plan of Correction is a plan which the licensing agency, or the 
temporary manager, develops to require an ICF -IID or an ICF -IID residential 
community home to take action within specified time frames.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 44 BAN ON ADMISSIONS PROCEDURE  
Rule 49.44.1 Ban on Admissions .  If an immediate jeopardy is found to exist in an ICF -IID 
and/or in an ICF-IID residential community home  as applicable, written notice of 
the determination shall be provided by the licensing agency to the ICF -IID or the 
<<<PAGE 908>>>
 
908 
  
ICF-IID Residential Community Home along with the notification that a ban on all 
admissions is to be imposed five calendar (5) days after the receipt of the notice by 
the ICF-IID and/or the ICF -IID residential community home unless a hearing is 
requested within five (5) calendar days following receipt of the notice from the 
licensing agency.  If a hearing is requested by the ICF -IID, the administrative 
procedures established under Rule 49.9.1 shall be applied. 
1. If the agency’s determination of noncompliance or Immediate Jeopardy on the 
day of the licensure visit/ survey is confirmed, a ban on all admissions shall be 
imposed until the ICF-IID or the ICF-IID residential community home achieves 
compliance and such c ompliance is verified by the licensing agency.  The 
licensing agency will verify compliance of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -
residential community home’s corrective actions as soon as possible, but not 
later than 15 working days after the licensing agency rec eives an acceptable 
allegation of compliance and/or an acceptable plan of correction from the ICF-
IID or the ICF-IID residential community home.  If the hearing determines that 
an Immediate Jeopardy situation did not exist, as applicable, on the day of the  
licensure/survey visit, no ban on all admissions will be imposed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 45 STATE MONITORING  
Rule 49.45.1 State Monitoring.  Monitors are identified by the licensing agency as appropriate 
professionals to monitor cited deficiencies.  A monitor shall meet the guidelines 
regarding conflicts of interests as follows: 
1. The monitor does not currently work, or, within the past two (2) years, has 
worked as an employee, as employment agency staff at the ICF -IID and/or at 
the ICF-IID residential community home or as an officer, consultant, or agent 
for the ICF -IID and/or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home to be 
monitored.   
2. The monitor has no financial interest or any ownership interest in the ICF -IID 
and/or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home.   
3. The monitor has no immediate family member who has a relationship with the 
ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home to be monitored. 
4. The monitor has no immediate family member who is a client in the ICF -IID 
and/or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home.   
5. If an ICF-IID has not achieved substantial compliance within five (5) months 
of the annual licensure survey, the remedy of state monitoring will be imposed 
as determined by the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 909>>>
 
909 
  
Rule 49.45.2 Compensation and Per Diem Costs.  All compensation and per diem costs of the 
State Monitor shall be paid by the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential 
Community Home.  The licensing agency shall bill the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID 
Residential Community Home for the costs of the State Mo nitor after termination 
of the monitoring services.  The costs of the State Monitor for any weekly forty 
(40) hour period (forty [40] hours per week) shall not exceed the maximum 
allowable owner/administrator salary of a like  sized ICF-IID as described in the 
Mississippi State Medicaid Plan.  Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the bill, the 
ICF-IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential Community Home shall pay the bill or 
request an administrative hearing to contest the costs for which it was billed. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.45.3 Recommendation.  If the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID Residential Community 
Home has not achieved substantial compliance with licensure requirements within 
six (6) months from the annual survey date, the licensing agency may revoke the 
license of the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID Residential Community Home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 46 DIRECTED PLAN OF CORRECTION 
Rule 49.46.1 Directed Plan of Correction.  Directed Plan of Correction as defined under Rule 
49.43. 1 may be imposed as follows: 
1. The ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home will be provided 
an opportunity to submit an acceptable Plan of Correction resultant to survey 
findings.  If the licensing agency does not receive an acceptable plan of 
correction, the licensing age ncy may impose one or more of the following 
remedies: 
a. Directed Plan of Correction; and  
b. Revocation of State License.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 47 TEMPORARY MANAGEMENT  
Rule 49.47.1 Recommendation for Appointment of Temporary Management .  If the 
licensing agency recommends the appointment of a temporary manager, the 
recommendation shall specify the grounds upon which such recommendation is 
based, including an assessment of the capability of the ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID 
residential communit y home’s current management to achieve and maintain 
compliance with all Licensure requirements. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 910>>>
 
910 
  
Rule 49.47.2 Notice of Imposition of Temporary Management .  A temporary manager may 
be imposed fifteen (15) days after the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID residential 
community home receives notice when a determination of an immediate jeopardy 
finding. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.3 Conditions of Temporary Management.  The  management of an ICF -IID or an 
ICF-IID residential community home must agree to relinquish control to the 
temporary manager and to pay his/her salary before the temporary manager can be 
installed in the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home. 
1. The ICF-IID cannot retain final authority to approve changes of personnel or 
expenditures of ICF-IID funds and be considered to have relinquished control 
to the temporary manager.  
2. The temporary manager must be given access to all ICF-IID bank accounts. 
3. The temporary manager’s salary/per diem fee shall not exceed the maximum 
allowable owner/administrator salary of a like sized ICF-IID as described in the 
Mississippi State Medicaid Plan 
4. All compensation and per diem costs of the temporary manager shall be paid 
by the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home.  The licensing 
agency shall bill the ICF -IID for the costs of the temporary manager after 
termination of temporary management.   Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of 
the bill, the ICF -IID shall pay the bill or request an administrative hearing to 
contest the costs for which it was billed.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.4 Selection of Temporary Manager .  The licensing agency shall compile and 
maintain a list of individuals eligible to serve as temporary managers.  The 
temporary manager must possess a Mississippi nursing home administrator’s 
license.  A contractual agreement will be executed between the temporary manager 
and the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.5 Eligibility of Temporary Manager.  The following individuals are not eligible to 
serve as temporary managers: 
1. Any individual who has been found guilty of misconduct by any licensing board 
or professional society in any State; or   
a. Any individual who has, or whose immediate family members have, any 
financial interest in or pre-existing fiduciary duty to the ICF-IID and/or the 
ICF-IID residential community home to be managed.  Indirect ownership 
<<<PAGE 911>>>
 
911 
  
interest, such as through a mutual fund, does not constitute financial interest 
for the purpose of this restriction; or 
b. Any individual who currently serves or, within the past two (2) years, has 
served as a member of the staff of the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential 
community home or has a pre-existing fiduciary duty to the ICF-IID and/or 
the ICF-IID residential community home;  
c. Any individual who does not possess sufficient training, expertise, and 
experience in the operation of an ICF -IID and/or an ICF -IID residential 
community home as would be necessary to achieve the objectives of 
temporary management; or 
d. Any individual who at the time of the imposition of temporary management 
could stand to gain an unfair competitive advantage by being appointed as 
temporary manager of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID residential 
community home. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.6 Condition of Appointment .  As a condition of appointment, the temporary 
manager must agree not to purchase, lease, or manage the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-
IID residential community home for a period of two (2) years following the end of 
the temporary management period. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.7 No Limitation.  Nothing contained in these sections shall limit the right of any 
ICF-IID and/or ICF -IID residential community home owner to sell, lease, 
mortgage, or close any ICF -IID and/or ICF -IID residential community home in 
accordance with all applicable laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.8 Authority and Powers of the Temporary Manager.   
1. A temporary manager has the authority to direct and oversee the correction of 
the deficiencies/licensure violations;  to oversee and direct the management, 
hiring, reassignment and/or discharge of any consultant or employee, including 
the administrator of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID residential community 
home; to direct  the expenditure of or obligate ICF -IID funds in a reasonable 
and prudent manner; to oversee the continuation of the business and the care of 
the clients; to oversee and direct those acts  necessary to accomplish the goals 
of the  licensure and/or certification requirements;  to alter ICF-IID procedures; 
and to direct and oversee regular accountings and the provision of periodic 
reports to the licensing agency. 
<<<PAGE 912>>>
 
912 
  
2. A temporary manager shall provide reports to the licensing agency by the 
fifteenth (15th) day of each month showing the compliance status of the ICF -
IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home;    
3. A temporary manager shall observe the confidentiality of the operating policies, 
procedures, employment practices, financial information, and all similar 
business information of the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community 
home  except that the tem porary manager shall make reports to the licensing 
agency as provided for in this section.    
4. The temporary manager shall be liable for gross, willful or wanton negligence, 
intentional acts or omissions, unexplained shortfalls in the ICF -IID and/or the 
ICF-IID residential community home’s funds, and breaches of fiduciary duty.  
The temporary manage r shall be bonded in an amount equal to the ICF -IID 
and/or the ICF-IID residential community home’s total revenues for the month 
preceding the appointment of the temporary manager. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 49.47.9 Authority of Temporary Manager .  The temporary manager shall not have the 
authority to do the following: 
1. To cause or direct the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community Home 
or its owner to incur debt or to enter into any contract with a duration beyond 
the term of the temporary management of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID 
residential community home;   
2. To cause or direct the ICF-IID  and/or the ICF-IID residential community home 
encumber its assets or receivables, or the premises on which it is located, with 
any lien or other encumbrances;   
3. To cause or direct the sale of the ICF-IID or the ICF-IID residential community 
home,  its assets, or the premises on which it is located;    
4. To cause or direct the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home 
to cancel or reduce its liability or casualty insurance coverage;   
5. To cause or direct the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home 
to default upon any valid obligations previously undertaken by the owners or 
operators of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID residential community home 
including but not limited to, leases, mortgages, and security interests; and   
6. To incur capital expenditures in excess of two -thousand dollars ($2,000.00) 
without the permission of the owner of the ICF -IID and/or the ICF -IID 
residential community home and the licensing agency. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 913>>>
 
913 
  
Rule 49.47.10 Duration of Temporary Manager.  Temporary management shall continue until 
a license is revoked or the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community 
home achieves substantial compliance and is capable of remaining in substantial 
compliance.  The licensing agency may replace any temporary manager whose 
performance, in the discretion of the licensing agency, is deemed unsatisfactory.  
No formal procedure is required for such removal or replacement but written 
notice of any action shall be given to the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential 
community home including the name of any replacement manager. 
1. An ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential community home subject to 
temporary management may petition the licensing agency for replacement of a 
temporary whose performance it considers unsatisfactory.  The licensing 
agency shall respond to a petition for replacement within three (3) business 
days after receipt of said petition. 
2. Otherwise, the licensing agency shall not terminate temporary management 
until it has determined that the ICF-IID and/or the ICF-IID residential 
community home has the management capability to ensure continued 
compliance with all licensure requirements or until the facility’s license is 
revoked.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
CHAPTER 50 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR ALZHEIMER’S 
DISEASE/DEMENTIA CARE UNIT:  GENERAL ALZHEIMER'S 
DISEASE/DEMENTIA CARE UNIT 
Subchapter 1   DEFINITIONS 
Rule 50.1.1 Alzheimer's Disease.  The term "Alzheimer's Disease" means a chronic 
progressive disease of unknown cause that attacks brain cells or tissues. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.1.2 Alzheimer's Disease/Dementia Care Unit (A/D Unit).  A licensed nursing home 
or licensed personal care home (hereinafter referred to as “licensed facility” 
unless specified otherwise) may establish a separate A/D Unit for residents 
suffering from a form of dementia or Alzheimer's Disease.  The rules and 
regulations as set forth in these regulations are in addition to the licensure 
requirements for the licensed facility, and do not exempt a licensed facility from 
compliance therewith. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.1.3 Alzheimer's Disease/Dementia Care Unit Designation.  Any licensed facility 
that establishes an A/D Unit, and meets the requirements as set forth in this 
chapter, shall have said designation printed upon the certificate of licensure issued 
<<<PAGE 914>>>
 
914 
  
to said facility by the licensing agency. In order for an A/D Unit to receive 
designation, the facility must have also received licensure from the licensing 
agency as a nursing home or as a personal care home. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.1.4 Ambulation.  The terms “ambulation” or “ambulatory” shall mean the resident’s 
ability to bear weight, pivot, and safely walk independently or with the use of a 
cane, walker, or other mechanical supportive device (i.e., including, but not 
limited to, a wheelchair).  A resident who requires a wheelchair must be capable 
of transferring to and propelling the wheelchair independently or with prompting.  
No more than ten percent (10%) of the resident census of the A/D Unit shall 
require assistance during any staffing shift as described and required herein. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.1.5 Dementia.  The term "dementia" means a clinical syndrome characterized by a 
decline of long duration in mental function in an alert individual.  Symptoms of 
dementia include memory loss and the loss or diminution of other cognitive 
abilities, such as learning ability, judgment, comprehension, attention, and 
orientation to time and place and to oneself.  Dementia can be caused by such 
diseases as: Alzheimer's Disease, Pick's Disease, Parkinson's and Huntington's 
Disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, multi-infarct dementia, etc. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.1.6 Licensed Facility.  The term “licensed facility” shall mean any  nursing home or 
personal care home licensed by the Mississippi Department of Health.  For 
additional licensure information, refer to “Regulations Governing Licensure of 
Nursing Home Facilities” and “Regulations Governing Licensure of Personal 
Care Home Facilities”. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2   STAFFING 
Rule 50.2.1 Staffing.  In addition to the staffing requirements as set forth for licensed 
facilities, the following staffing requirements shall apply to A/D Units: 
1. Minimum requirements for nursing staff shall be based on the ratio of three (3.0) 
hours of nursing care per resident per twenty-four (24) hours Licensed nursing 
staff and nursing aides can be included in the ratio.  Staffing requirements are 
based upon resident census.   
2. A Registered Nurse or Licensed Practical Nurse shall be present on all shifts. 
<<<PAGE 915>>>
 
915 
  
3. If the designated A/D Unit is not freestanding, licensed nursing staff may be 
shared with the rest of the facility for the purpose of meeting the minimum 
staffing requirements. 
4. Only staff trained as specified in Rule 50.2.2 and Rule 50.2.3 below shall be  
assigned to the A/D Unit. 
5. A minimum of two (2) staff members shall be on the A/D Unit at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.2.2 Staff Orientation.  The goals of training and education for A/D Units are to 
enhance staff understanding and sensitivity toward the A/D Unit residents, to allow 
staff to master care techniques, to ensure better performance of duties and 
responsibilities, and to prevent staff burnout.  The trainer(s) shall be qualified 
individuals with experience and knowledge in the care of individuals with 
Alzheimer's Disease and other forms of dementia.  The licensed facility shall 
provide an orientation program to all new employees assigned to the A/D Unit.  
The orientation program shall be outlined in an orientation manual and shall 
include, but not be limited to: 
1. The licensed facility's philosophy related to the care of residents with Alzheimer's 
Disease and other forms of dementia in the A/D Unit; 
2. A description of Alzheimer's Disease and other forms of dementia; 
 
3. The licensed facility's policies and procedures regarding the general approach to 
care provided in the A/D Unit, including therapies provided; treatment modalities; 
admission, discharge, and transfer criteria; basic services provided within the A/D 
Unit; policies regarding restraints, wandering and egress control, and medication 
management; nutrition management techniques; staff training; and family 
activities; and 
4. Common behavior problems and recommended behavior management.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.2.3 In-Service Training.  Ongoing in-service training shall be provided to all staff 
who may be in direct contact with residents of the A/D Unit.  Staff training shall 
be provided at least quarterly.  The licensed facility will keep records of all staff 
training provided and the qualifications of the trainer(s).  The licensed facility 
shall provide hands on training on at least three (3) of the following topics each 
quarter: 
1. The nature of Alzheimer's Disease, including the definition, the need for careful 
diagnosis, and knowledge of the stages of Alzheimer's Disease; 
<<<PAGE 916>>>
 
916 
  
2. Common behavioral problems and recommended behavior management 
techniques; 
3. Communication skills that facilitate better resident-staff relations; 
4. Positive therapeutic interventions and activities, such- as exercise, sensory 
stimulation, activities of daily living skills, etc.; 
5. The role of the family in caring for residents with Alzheimer's Disease, as well as 
the support needed by the family of these residents; 
6. Environmental modifications  to avoid problems and create a therapeutic 
environment; 
7. Development of comprehensive and individual care plans and how to update and 
implement them consistently across shifts, establishing a baseline and concrete 
treatment goals and outcomes; and 
8. New developments in diagnosis and therapy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3   ASSESSMENT AND INDIVIDUAL CARE PLANS 
Rule 50.3.1 Assessments.  Prior to admission to the A/D Unit, each individual shall receive a 
medical examination and assessment from a licensed physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant.  In addition, prior to admission, each individual 
shall be assessed by a licensed practitioner whose scope of practice includes 
assessment of cognitive, functional, and social abilities, and nutritional needs.  
These assessments shall include the individual's family supports, level of 
activities of daily living functioning and level of behavioral impairment.  The 
functional assessment shall demonstrate that the individual is appropriate for 
placement. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.3.2 Care Plans.  Individual care plans shall be developed by the staff for each 
resident. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.3.3 Family Involvement.  Whenever possible and appropriate, the family shall be 
involved in the development of a resident's care plan.  The family shall be 
provided with information regarding social services, such as support groups for 
families and friends.  A designated family member shall be notified in a timely 
manner of care plan sessions.  Documentation of such notification shall be kept by 
the licensed facility. 
<<<PAGE 917>>>
 
917 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.3.4 Review of Care Plans.  Each care plan and functional assessment, developed 
upon admission to determine the resident's appropriateness for placement, shall be 
reviewed, evaluated for its effectiveness, and updated at least quarterly or more 
frequently if indicated by changing needs of the resident. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.3.5 Admission and Discharge Criteria.  The following criteria must be applied and 
maintained for resident placement in an A/D Unit: 
1. Only residents with a primary diagnosis of Alzheimer’s Disease or dementia, 
whose needs can be met by the licensed facility, shall be admitted.  
2. For licensed facilities which are personal care homes, a person shall not be 
admitted or continue to reside in an A/D Unit if the person does not meet the 
admission criteria for the licensed facility unless otherwise exempted by such 
applicable laws and regulations. 
3. The licensed facility must be able to identify at the time of admission and during 
continued stay those residents whose needs for services are consistent with these 
rules and regulations, and those residents who should be transferred to an 
appropriate level of care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4   THERAPEUTIC ACTIVITIES 
Rule 50.4.1 Therapeutic Activities.  Therapeutic activities shall be provided to the residents 
of the A/D Unit seven (7) days per week.  The therapeutic activities shall be 
scheduled by a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist, a Qualified 
Therapeutic Recreation Specialist, or an Activity Consultant Certified, which 
must provide a minimum of eight (8) hours monthly in-house consultation to an 
activities designee. 
1. Activities shall be delivered at various hours. 
2. Opportunities shall be provided for daily involvement with nature, and sunshine 
(i.e., as in outdoor activities) as weather permits. 
3. Residents will not be observed with negative outcome for long periods without 
meaningful activities. 
4. Activities will: 
a. tap into better long-term memory than short; 
<<<PAGE 918>>>
 
918 
  
b. provide multiple short activities to work within short attention spans; 
c. provide experience with animals, nature, and children; and 
d. provide opportunities for physical, social, and emotional outlets. 
5. Productive activities that create a feeling of usefulness shall be provided. 
6. Leisure activities shall be provided. 
7. Self-care activities shall be provided. 
8. Planned and spontaneous activities shall be provided in the following areas: 
a. structured large and small groups; 
b. spontaneous intervention; 
c. domestic tasks/chores; 
d. life skills; 
e. work; 
f. relationships/social; 
g. leisure; 
h. seasonal; 
i. holidays, 
j. personal care; 
k. meal time; and 
l. intellectual, spiritual, creative, and physically active pursuits. 
9. Activities will be based on cultural and lifestyle differences. 
10. Activities shall be appropriate and meaningful for each resident, and shall respect 
a person's age, beliefs, culture, values, and life experience. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 5   SOCIAL SERVICES 
Rule 50.5.1 Social Services.  A licensed social worker, licensed professional counselor, or 
licensed marriage and family therapist shall provide social services to both the 
<<<PAGE 919>>>
 
919 
  
resident and support to family members, including but not limited to the 
following: 
1. The socialization of a resident shall be incorporated in the resident's care plan. 
2. The provision of support to the resident's family, including formation of family 
support groups, shall be offered by the licensed facility. 
3. The social service consultation shall be onsite, and shall be a minimum of eight 
(8) hours per month. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6      NUTRITIONAL SERVICES 
Rule 50.6.1 Nutritional Services.  A nutritional assessment shall be completed for each 
resident.  If the nutritional assessment identifies therapeutic nutritional needs, or 
is ordered by the resident’s physician, a registered dietician shall assess and plan a 
diet for the resident’s nutritional needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 7      PHYSICAL LAYOUT 
Rule 50.7.1 Physical Design.  In addition to the physical plant standards required for the 
licensed facility, an A/D Unit shall include the following: 
1. A separate multipurpose room for dining, group, and individual activities, and 
family visits which is a minimum of forty (40) square feet per resident, but in no 
case shall be smaller than three hundred-twenty (320) square feet; 
2. A secured area for medication, storage, and workspace; 
3. A secure, exterior exercise pathway that allows residents to walk on a level, non-
slip path.  The path shall have a minimum width of four (4) feet.  Seating shall be 
next to the pathway, but outside the walking path.  Lighting shall be indirect with 
a minimum brightness of fifty (50) foot candles; 
4. High visual contrast between floors and walls, and doorways and walls, in resident 
use areas.  With the exception of fire exits, door and access ways may be designed 
to minimize contrast to obscure or conceal areas the residents should not enter; 
5. Floors, walls and ceiling that are non-reflective to minimize glare; 
6. Adequate and even lighting which minimizes glare and shadows and is designed to 
meet the specific needs of the residents;  
7. Service sections that are removed from resident areas.  Kitchen services and storage 
shall be separated from resident areas by a secure enclosure; 
<<<PAGE 920>>>
 
920 
  
8. Security controls on all entrances and exits; 
9. Exterior fencing that shall be placed at the pathway level, at a minimum height of 
six (6) feet.  Fencing shall be solid so as to block the view if mounted at the 
pathway level.  No entrance gates shall be visible from the exterior area.  If the 
grading allows, the fence shall be placed at the bottom of the central grade.  An 
open fence may be utilized if it is separated by a grade change; and 
10. Physical Design Waiver for Existing Facilities.  The licensing agency, within its 
discretion, may waive only the requirements in this section for the designation of 
an A/D Unit for any licensed facility which was established prior to October 13, 
1999, as documented in the records of the licensing agency, a separate, secured 
unit for the care of residents diagnosed with Alzheimer’s Disease or other forms 
of dementia.  Waivers granted under this section may be granted, within the 
discretion of the licensing agency, with conditions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.7.2 Physical Environment and Safety.  The A/D Unit shall: 
1. Provide freedom of movement for the residents to common areas and to their 
personal spaces.  The facility shall not lock residents out of or inside their rooms; 
2. Provide trays, plates, and eating utensils which provide visual contrast between 
them and the table and that maximize the independence of the individual 
residents; 
3. Label or inventory all residents' possessions; 
4. Provide comfortable chairs, including at least one in the common use area that 
allows for gentle rocking or gliding; 
5. Encourage and assist residents to decorate and furnish their rooms with personal 
items and furnishings based on the resident's needs, preferences and 
appropriateness; 
6. Individually identify residents' rooms to assist residents in recognizing their room; 
7. Keep corridors and passageways through common use areas free of objects which 
may cause falls; and 
8. Only use a public address system in an A/D Unit (if one exists) for emergencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 50.7.3 Egress Control.  The licensed facility shall develop policies and procedures to 
deal with residents who may attempt to wander outside of the A/D Unit.  The 
procedures shall include actions to be taken in case a resident elopes. 
<<<PAGE 921>>>
 
921 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
CHAPTER 51:  MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR PSYCHIATRIC 
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITIES 
 
Subchapter 1   General:    Legal Authority 
 
Rule 51.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated, 43-11-1 through 43-11-27 
(Supplemented 1986), The Mississippi Department of Health does hereby adopt 
and promulgate Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Institutions for 
the Aged and Infirm which includes Skilled Nursing Facilities, Intermediate Care 
Facilities, Personal Care Homes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.1.2 The 1990 Legislature amended the code to include Psychiatric Residential 
Treatment Facilities as an institution for the Aged or Infirm. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.1.3 "Psychiatric Resident Treatment Facility" means any non-hospital 
establishment with permanent facilities which provides a twenty-four (24) hour 
program of care by qualified therapists including, but not limited to, duly licensed 
mental health professionals, psychiatrists, psychologists and licensed certified 
social workers, for emotionally disturbed children and adolescents referred to 
such facility by a court, local school district or by the Department of Human 
Services, who are not in an acute phase of illness requiring the services of a 
psychiatric hospital, and are in need of such restorative treatment services.  For 
purposes of this paragraph, the term "emotionally disturbed" means a condition 
exhibiting one or more of the following characteristics over along period of time 
and to a marked degree, which adversely affects educational performance: 
1. An inability to learn which cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory or health 
factors; 
2. An inability to build or maintain satisfactory relationships with peers and teachers; 
3. Inappropriate types of behavior or feelings under normal circumstances; 
4. A general pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression; or 
5. A tendency to develop physical symptoms or fears associated with personal or 
school problems. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 2   TYPES OF LICENSE 
<<<PAGE 922>>>
 
922 
  
Rule 51.2.1 Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each institution for the aged or 
infirm that meets the requirements as set forth in these regulations.  The license 
shall show the classification (Skilled Nursing Facility, Intermediate Care Facility, 
Personal Care Home, and Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facility). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.2.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the Mississippi Department of Health 
may issue a provisional license when a temporary condition of non-compliance 
with these regulations exists in one or more particulars.  A provisional license 
shall be issued only if the Department of Health is satisfied that preparations are 
being made to qualify for a regular license and that the health and safety of 
patients will not be endangered meanwhile.  One conditional on which a 
provisional license may be issued is as follows:  A new institution for the aged or 
infirm may be issued a provisional license prior to opening and subsequent to 
meeting the required minimum staffing personnel.  The license issued under this 
condition shall be valid until the issuance of a regular license or March 31 
following date of issuance whichever may be sooner.  A provisional license may 
be reissued only if it is satisfactorily proven to the Department of Health that 
efforts are being made to fully comply with these regulations by a specified time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 
Rule 51.3.1  Application. Application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made in 
writing to the licensing agency on forms provided by the Department of Health 
which shall contain such information as the Department of Health may require. 
The application shall require reasonable, affirmative evidence of ability to comply 
with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.3.2 Fees. .  Each initial and renewal licensure application, unless suspended or 
revoked, shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the Board, made payable to the 
Mississippi State Department of Health,either by business check, money order, or 
electronic means. Renewal of licenses shall occur on an annual basis. Fees are 
non-refundable.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.3.3 Name of Institution. Every institution for the aged or infirm shall be designated by 
a permanent and distinctive name which shall be used in applying for a license and 
shall not be changed without first notifying the licensing agency in writing and 
receiving written approval of the change from the licensing agency. Such notice 
shall specify the name to be discontinued as well as the new name proposed. The 
words "hospital", "sanatarium", “sanatorium", "clinic", or any other word which 
would reflect a different type of institution shall not appear in the title of an 
<<<PAGE 923>>>
 
923 
  
institution for the aged or infirm. In addition to these words, the word "nursing" 
shall not appear in the title of a Personal Care Home. Only the official name by 
which the institution is licensed shall be used in telephone listing, on stationery, in 
advertising, etc. Two or more facilities shall not be licensed under similar names in 
the same vicinity. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 51.3.4 Number of Beds. Each application for licensure shall specify the maximum 
  number of beds in the institution for the aged or infirm. The maximum number of 
  beds for which the facility is licensed shall not be exceeded. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4   LICENSING 
Rule 51.4.1 Issuance of License.  All licenses issued by the Department of Health shall set 
forth the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the 
classification of the institution, the type of building, the bed capacity for which 
the institution is licensed, and the license number. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.4.2 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by an interested person. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.4.3 License Not Transferable.  The license for an institution for the aged or infirm is 
not transferable or assignable to any other person except by written approval of 
the licensing agency and shall be issued only for the premises named in the 
application.  The license shall be surrendered to the Department of Health on 
change of ownership, licensee, name or location of the institution, or in the event 
that the institution ceases to be operated as an institution for the aged or infirm.  
In event of change of ownership, licensee, name or location of the institution, a 
new application shall be filed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.4.4 Expiration of License.  Each license shall expire on March 31 following the date 
of issuance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.4.5 Renewal of License.  License shall be renewable by the licensee. 
1. Filing of an application for renewal of licensee;  
<<<PAGE 924>>>
 
924 
  
2. Submission of appropriate licensure renewal fee; 
3. Approval of annual report by the licensing agency; and 
4. Maintenance by the institution of minimum standards in its physical facility, staff, 
services, and operation as set forth in these regulations.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13  
Subchapter 5   DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 51.5.1 Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearings and Review.  The licensing agency 
after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee is authorized 
to deny, suspend, or revoke a license in any case in which it finds that there has 
been a substantial failure to comply with the requirements established under the law 
and these regulations.  Also, the following shall be grounds for denial or revocation 
of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license; 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of Sections 
43-11-1 et seq., of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or the rules, 
regulations, and minimum standards established by the Department of Health; 
3. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or other employees or personnel of the 
home; 
4. Excessive use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the home 
to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the patient or resident; 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a felony; 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the home and/or its services; 
7. Permitting, aiding, abetting the commission of any unlawful act; 
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of patients or residents and 
employees of said institutions provided that this provision shall not be construed 
to have any reference to healing practices authorized by law.  Detrimental 
practices include but are not necessarily limited to: 
a. Cruelty to patient or resident or indifference to their needs which are essential to 
their general well-being and health; 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a patient or resident; 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of the patient or resident; 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of patient or resident; 
<<<PAGE 925>>>
 
925 
  
e. Failure to call a physician when required by patient's or resident's condition; 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when patient's or resident's conditions becomes 
critical; and 
g. Admission of a patient or resident whose condition demands care beyond the 
level or care provided by the home as determined by its classification. 
9. The execution of any contract for care exceeding one year without written approval 
of licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6      PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING DENIAL 
OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
Rule 51.6.1 Administrative Decision.  The Mississippi Department of Health will provide an 
opportunity for a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with 
administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail or 
personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or revocation of 
license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within ten (10) days of the 
date of notification the licensing agency shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) 
days from the date of such service at which time the applicant or licensee shall be 
given an opportunity for a prompt and fair hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact and 
conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by registered mail 
to the last known address of the applicant of licensee or served personally upon 
the applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license shall 
become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the applicant or 
licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision to the Chancery 
Court pursuant to Section 12 (6964-12), Chapter 384, Laws 1952.  An additional 
period of time may be granted at the discretion of the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.6.2 Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating an 
institution for the aged or infirm without a license shall be declared in violations of 
these regulations and Chapter 451 of the Laws of Mississippi of the Regular 
Legislative Session of 1979 and subject to the penalties specified in Section 18 
thereof. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 926>>>
 
926 
  
Subchapter 7   FACILITY MANAGEMENT:  GOVERNING BODY 
Rule 51.7.1 Every child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility shall have a 
governing body that has overall responsibility for the operation of the facility. 
1. A public facility shall have a written description of the administrative organization 
for the government agency within which it operates. 
2. A public facility shall also have a written description of how the lines of authority 
within the government agency relate to the governing body of the facility. 
3. A private facility shall have a charter, constitution, or bylaws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.2 The names and addresses of all owners or controlling parties of the facility (whether 
they are individuals; partnerships; corporate bodies; or subdivisions of other bodies, 
such a public agencies or religious, fraternal, or other charitable organizations) shall 
be fully disclosed.  In case of corporations, the names and addresses of all officers, 
directors, and principal stockholders either beneficial or of record shall be 
disclosed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.3 The governing body shall meet at least quarterly. 
1. Minutes of these meetings shall be kept and shall include at least the following; 
2. The date of the meeting; 
3. The names of members who attended; 
4. The topics discussed; 
5. The decisions reached and actions taken; 
6. The dates for implementation of recommendations; and 
7. The reports of the chief executive officer and others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.4 The governing body shall establish a committee structure to fulfill its 
responsibilities and to assess the results of the facility's activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 927>>>
 
927 
  
Rule 51.7.5 The governing body, through the chief executive officer, shall have a written 
statement of the facility's goals and objectives, as well as written procedures for 
implementing these goals and objectives. 
1. There shall be documentation that the statement and procedures are based upon a 
planning process, and that the facility's goals and objectives are approved by the 
governing body. 
2. The governing body, through the chief executive officer, shall have a written plan 
for obtaining financial resources that are consonant with the facility's goals and 
objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.6 When a residential treatment program is a component of a larger facility, the staff 
of the residential treatment program, subject to the overall responsibility of the 
governing body, shall be given the authority necessary to plan, organize, and 
operate the program.  The residential treatment program shall hire and assign its 
own staff. The categorical program shall employ a sufficient number of qualified 
and appropriately trained staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.7 The governing body, through its chief executive officer, shall develop policies 
and shall make sufficient resources available (for example, funds, staff, 
equipment, supplies, and facilities) to assure that the program is capable of 
providing appropriate and adequate services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.8 The facility's physical and financial resources shall be adequately insured. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.9 The governing body shall establish bylaws, rules and regulations, and a table of 
organization to guide relationships between itself and the responsible 
administration and professional staffs and the community. 
1. The governing body may establish one set of bylaws, rules and regulations that 
clearly delineates the responsibilities and authority of the governing body and the 
administrative and professional staff. 
2. Administrative and professional staffs may establish separate bylaws, rules and 
regulations that are consistent with policies established by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 928>>>
 
928 
  
Rule 51.7.10  Bylaws, rules and regulations shall comply with legal requirements, be designed to 
encourage high quality patient care, and be consistent with the facility's community 
responsibility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.11 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the powers and duties of the 
governing body and its officers and committees; or the authority and 
responsibilities of any person legally designed to function as the governing body, 
as well as the authority and responsibility delegated to the responsible 
administrative and professional staffs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.12 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the eligibility criteria for governing 
body membership; the types of membership and the method of selecting 
members; frequency of governing body meetings; the number of members 
necessary for a quorum and other attendance requirements for governing body 
meetings; the requirement that meetings be documented in the form of written 
minutes and the duration of appointment or election for governing body members, 
officers, and committed chairpersons. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.13 Such by laws, rules and regulations shall describe the qualifications, authority, 
and responsibilities of the chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.14 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify the method for appointing the 
chief executive office. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.15 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the administrative and 
professional staffs with the authority and freedom necessary to carry out their 
responsibilities within the organizational framework of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.16 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the professional staff with the 
authority necessary to encourage high quality patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.17 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the procedures under which the 
administrative and professional staff cooperatively function. 
<<<PAGE 929>>>
 
929 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.18 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the establishment of controls 
designed to encourage each member of the professional staff to observe the 
standards of the profession and assume and carry out functions in accordance with 
local, state, and federal laws and rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.19 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the professional staff bylaws, 
rules and regulations to be subject to governing body approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.20 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify procedures for selecting 
professional staff officers, directors, and department or service chiefs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.21 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that physicians with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses, and clinical privileges evaluate and authenticate medical 
histories and physical examinations, and prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.22 Such bylaws, rules and regulations may also allow dentists with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses, and clinical privileges to prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.23 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the procedure for conferring 
clinical privileges on all professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.24 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the responsibilities of physicians 
in relation to non-physician members of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.25 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide a mechanism through which the 
administrative and professional staffs report to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.26 Such by laws, rules and regulations shall define the means by which the 
administrative and professional staffs participate in the development of facility 
and program policies concerning program management and patient care, and shall 
include, but not be limited to: 
<<<PAGE 930>>>
 
930 
  
1. Admission, transfer and discharge policies and procedures; 
2. Prescription and administration of medication policies and procedures which shall 
be consistent with applicable federal and state laws and regulations; and 
3. Case records policies and procedures which shall ensure confidentiality of patient 
records in accordance with state laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.27 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require an orientation program for new 
governing body members and a continuing education program for all members of 
the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.7.28 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that the bylaws, rules and 
regulations be reviewed at least every two years, revised as necessary, and signed 
and dated to indicate the time of last review. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 8   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Rule 51.8.1 The governing body shall appoint a chief executive officer who shall be employed 
on a full-time basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.2 The qualifications, authority, and duties of the chief executive officer shall be 
stated in the governing body's bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.3 The chief executive officer shall be a health professional with appropriate 
professional qualifications and experience, including previous administrative 
responsibility in a health facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.4 The chief executive officer shall have a medical degree or at least a master's degree 
in administration, psychology, social work, education, or nursing; and, when 
required, should have appropriate licenses. Experience shall include previous 
administrative responsibility in a facility for children or adolescents. Experience 
may be substituted for a professional degree when it is carefully evaluated, 
justified, and documented by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 931>>>
 
931 
  
Rule 51.8.5 In accordance with the facility's bylaws, rules and regulations, the chief executive 
officer shall be responsible to the governing body for the overall operation of the 
facility, including the control, utilization, and conservation of its physical and 
financial assets and the recruitment and direction of staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.6 The chief executive officer shall assist the governing body in formulating policy 
by preparing the following items and presenting them to and reviewing them with 
the governing body: 
1. Long-term and short-term plans of the facility; 
2. Reports on the nature and extent of funding and other available resources; 
3. Reports describing the facility's operations; 
4. Reports evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of facility or program activity; 
and 
5. Budgets and financial statements. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.7 The chief executive officer shall be responsible for the preparation of a written 
manual that defines the facility policies and procedures and that is regularly 
revised and updated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.8.8 There shall be documentation that the chief executive officer attends and 
participates in continuing education programs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 9   PROFESSIONAL STAFF ORGANIZATION 
Rule 51.9.1 There shall be a single organized professional staff that has the overall 
responsibility for the quality of all clinical care provided to patients, and for the 
ethical conduct and professional practices of its members, as well as for 
accounting therefore to the governing body. The manner in which the professional 
staff is organized shall be consistent with the facility's documented staff 
organization and bylaws, rules and regulations, and pertain to the setting where 
the facility is located. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and the 
rules and regulations of the governing authority shall require that a qualified 
physician be responsible for diagnosis and all care and treatment. The 
organization of the professional staff, and its bylaws, rules and regulations, shall 
be approved by the facility's governing body. 
<<<PAGE 932>>>
 
932 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.9.2 The professional staff shall strive to assure that each member is qualified for 
membership and shall encourage the optimal level of professional performance of 
its members through the appointment/reappointment procedure, the specific 
delineation of clinical privileges, and the periodic reappraisal of each staff 
member according to the provisions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 10   QUALIFICATIONS 
Rule 51.10.1 The appointment and reappointment of professional staff members shall be based 
upon well-defined, written criteria that are related to the goals and objectives of 
the facility as stated in the bylaws, rules and regulations of the professional staff 
and of the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.10.2 Upon application or appointment to the professional staff, each individual must 
sign a statement to the effect that he or she has read and agrees to be bound by the 
professional staff and governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.10.3 The initial appointment and continued professional staff membership shall be 
dependent upon clinical competence and ethical practice in keeping with the 
qualifications, standards, and requirements set forth in the professional staff and 
governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.10.4 Unless otherwise provided by law, only those practitioners who are licensed, 
certified, or registered, or who have demonstrated competence and experience, 
shall be eligible for professional staff membership. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 11   METHOD OF SELECTION 
Rule 51.11.1 Each facility is responsible for developing a process of appointment to the 
professional staff whereby it can satisfactorily determine that the person is 
appropriately licensed, certified, registered, or experienced, and qualified for the 
privileges and responsibilities he or she seeks. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 12   PRIVILEGE DELINEATION 
<<<PAGE 933>>>
 
933 
  
Rule 51.12.1 Privileges shall be delineated for each member of the professional staff, regardless 
of the size of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.12.2 The delineation of privileges shall be based on all verified information available 
in the applicant's or staff member's credentials file. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.12.3 Clinical privileges shall be facility-specific. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.12.4 The professional staff shall delineate in its bylaws, rules and regulations of the 
qualifications, status, clinical duties, and responsibilities of clinical practitioners 
who are not members of the professional staff but who services require that they 
be processed through the usual professional staff channels. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.12.5 The training, experience, and demonstrated competence of individuals in such 
categories shall be sufficient to permit their performing their assigned functions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.12.6 There shall be provisions for individuals in such categories to receive professional 
supervision, when indicated, from their professional counterparts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 13   REAPPOINTMENT 
Rule 51.13.1 The facility's professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide for 
review and reappointment of each professional staff member at least once every 
three years. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.13.2 The reappointment process should include a review of the individual's status by a 
designated professional staff committee, such as the credentials committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.13.3 When indicated, the credentials committee shall require the individual to submit 
evidence of his or her current health status that verifies the individual's ability to 
discharge his or her responsibilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 934>>>
 
934 
  
Rule 51.13.4 The committee's review of the clinical privileges of a staff member for 
reappointment should include the individual's past and current professional 
performance as well as his or her adherence to the governing body and 
professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.13.5 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall limit the time within 
which the professional staff reappointment and privilege delineation processes 
must completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 14   ORGANIZATION 
Rule 51.14.1 The professional staff shall be organized to accomplish its required functions. The 
professional staff organization must provide a framework in which the staff can 
carry out its duties and functions effectively. The complexity of the organization 
shall be consonant with the size of the facility and the scope of its activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.14.2 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide for the selection 
of officers for an executive committee, and when appropriate, for other 
organizational components of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.14.3 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations should specify the 
organization needed to provide effective governance of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 15   EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Rule 51.15.1 The executive committee shall be empowered to act for the professional staff in 
the intervals between the staff meetings. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.15.2 The committee shall serve as a liaison mechanism between the professional staff 
and the administration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.15.3 There shall be a mechanism that assures medical participation in the deliberations 
of the executive committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 935>>>
 
935 
  
Rule 51.15.4 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the size, 
composition, method of selecting members, and frequency of meetings of the 
executive committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.15.5 The executive committee shall maintain a permanent record of its proceedings 
and actions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.15.6 The functions and responsibilities of the executive committee shall include at 
least the following: 
1. Receiving and acting upon reports and recommendations from professional staff 
committees, departments, and services; 
2. Implementing the approved policies of the professional staff; 
3. Recommending to the governing body all matters relating to appointments and 
reappointments, staff categorization and assignments, clinical privileges, and 
except when such is a function of the professional staff or one of its committees, 
corrective action; 
4. Fulfilling the professional staff's accountability to the governing body for the 
quality of the overall clinical care rendered to patients in the facility; and 
5. Initiating and pursuing corrective action when warranted, in accordance with the 
provisions of the professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 16 PROFESSIONAL STAFF BYLAWS 
Rule 51.16.1 The professional staff shall develop and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to 
establish a framework of self-government and a means of accountability to the 
governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.2 The bylaws, rules and regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing 
body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.3 The professional staff shall regulate itself by its bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 936>>>
 
936 
  
Rule 51.16.4 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall reflect current staff 
practices, shall be enforced, and shall be periodically reviewed and revised as 
necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.5 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include a requirement 
for an ethical pledge from each practitioner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.6 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the specific role 
of each discipline represented on the professional staff or exercising clinical 
privileges in the care of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.7 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include the following 
patient record requirement: 
1. Symbols and abbreviations shall be used only when they have been approved by 
the professional staff and when there is an explanatory legend; 
2. The categories of personnel who are qualified to accept and transcribe verbal 
orders, regardless of the mode of transmission of the orders, shall be specifically 
identified; 
3. The period of time following admission to the facility within which a history and 
physical examination must be entered in the patient record shall be specified; 
4. The time period in which patient records must be completed following discharge 
shall be specified and shall not exceed fourteen (14) days; and 
5. The entries in patient records that must be dated and authenticated by the 
responsible practitioner shall be specified. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.16.8 The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify mechanisms for 
the denial of staff appointments and reappointments, as well as for denial, 
curtailment, suspension, or revocation of clinical privileges.  When appropriate, 
this procedure shall provide for a practitioner to be heard, upon request, at some 
stage of the process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 17 WRITTEN PLAN FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 937>>>
 
937 
  
Rule 51.17.1 Within the scope of its activities, the facility shall have enough appropriately 
qualified health care professional, administrative and support staff available to 
adequately assess and address the identified clinical needs of patients. 
Appropriately qualified professional staff may include qualified child and/or 
adolescent psychiatrists and other physicians, clinical psychologists, social 
workers, psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners, psychiatric nurses, and 
other health care professionals in numbers and variety appropriate to the services 
offered by the facility and with training and experience working with children 
and/or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.2 The plan shall describe the services offered by the facility so that a frame of 
reference for judging the various aspects of the facility's operation is available. 
1. The written plan for professional services shall describe the following: 
2. The population served, including age groups and other characteristics of the patient 
population; 
3. The hours and days the facility operates; 
4. The methods used to carry out initial screening and/or triage; 
5. The intake or admission process; including how the initial contact is made with the 
patient and the family or significant others; 
6. The assessment and evaluation procedures provided by the facility; 
7. The methods used to deliver services to meet the identified clinical needs of 
patients served; 
8. The basic therapeutic programs offered by the facility; 
9. The treatment planning process and the periodic review of therapy; 
10. The discharge and post-therapy planning processes; 
11. The organizational relationships of each of the facility's therapeutic programs, 
including channels of staff communication, responsibility, and authority, as well 
as supervisory relation-ships; and 
12. The means by which the facility provides, or makes arrangements for the 
provision of, the following: 
a. Other medical, special assessments, and therapeutic services; 
b. Patient education services, whether provided from within or outside the facility; 
<<<PAGE 938>>>
 
938 
  
c. Emergency services and crisis intervention; and 
d. Discharge and aftercare, including post-therapy planning and follow-up 
evaluation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.3 When the facility is organized by departments or services, the written plan for 
professional services shall describe how each department or service relates to the 
goals and other programs of the facility, specify lines of responsibility within each 
department of service, and define the rolls of department or service personnel and 
the methods for interdisciplinary collaboration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.4 When a facility is organized on a team or unit basis, either totally or in part, the 
written plan for professional services shall delineate the roles and responsibilities 
of team members in meeting the identified clinical needs of patients and in 
relation to the goals and programs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.5 The written plan for professional services shall be made known and available to 
all professional personnel and to the chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.6 The plan shall be reviewed at least annually, and revised as necessary, in relation 
to the changing needs of the patients, the community, and the overall objectives 
and goals of the facility, and it shall be signed and dated by the reviewers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.7 Within the scope of its activities, the facility shall have enough appropriately 
qualified health care professional, administrative and support staff available to 
adequately assess and address the identified clinical needs of patients. 
Appropriately qualified professional staff may include qualified child and/or adolescent 
psychiatrists and other physicians, clinical psychologists, social workers, 
psychiatric nurses, and other health care professionals in numbers and variety 
appropriate to the services offered by the facility and with training and experience 
working with children and/or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.8 When appropriate qualified professional staff are not available or needed on a 
full-time basis, arrangements shall be made to obtain sufficient services on an 
attending continuing consultative or part-time basis. 
<<<PAGE 939>>>
 
939 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.9 The professional staff shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
appropriately qualified mental health professionals and paraprofessionals; child 
psychiatrists; child psychologists; social workers; psychiatric nurse; child care 
workers; educators; speech, hearing, and language specialists; activity and 
recreation specialists; and vocational counselors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.17.10 The professional staff who are assigned full time to the child/adolescent 
psychiatric residential treatment program, are not shared with other programs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 18 ADMISSION AND DISCHARGE CRITERIA 
Rule 51.18.1 Only a psychiatrist on the staff of the facility shall determine whether admission 
of a child/adolescent to the psychiatric residential facility is appropriate.  The 
decision shall be based upon either a direct examination conducted personally by 
the psychiatrist or upon the psychiatrist’s review of the findings of an 
appropriately trained and trusted clinician.  When the admitting psychiatrist is not 
a child psychiatrist, consultation with a child psychiatrist regarding the 
advisability of admission shall be required. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.18.2 Each child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility shall maintain 
written admission and discharge criteria which are consistent with its goals and 
objectives and state rules and regulations and which are subject to approval of the 
Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.18.3 The admission criteria must, at a minimum, provide that the child/adolescent meet 
each of the following criteria: 
1. Identification of a serious and persistent psychopathology as evidenced by: 
a. Severe thought disorder, or 
b. Severe mood disorder, or 
c. Severe anxiety/panic disorder, or 
d. Moderate thought disorder in conjunction with an impulse control disorder or a 
deficit in activities of daily living skills, or 
<<<PAGE 940>>>
 
940 
  
e. Severe conduct disorder in conjunction with an impulse control disorder or a 
deficit in activities of daily living skills, or 
f. Severe personality disorder in conjunction with an impulse control disorder or a 
deficit in activities of daily living skills, or 
g. Complex, concurrent disorders (such as a physiologic disorder or other 
psychiatric disorder, including but not limited to an eating disorder or a 
substance abuse disorder), or 
h. Any combination of the above; 
2. Intelligence Quotient equal to or greater than 60 unless medical documentation 
supports that suppressed score is due to the patient’s “emotional disorder”. 
3. Attainment of at least the sixth birthday but no more than the twenty-first birthday; 
and  
4. Presentation of no likelihood of serious harm to self or others, and 
5. Failure of treatment at a lower level of care or available less restrictive treatment 
resources must have been considered and determined to be not available or not 
appropriate to the patient’s needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.18.4 The admitting psychiatrist shall document the reasons why a lower level of care is 
not medically appropriate, which may include: 
1. Complex case because of one or more complicating concurrent disorders requiring 
a higher level of care to provide medically necessary evaluation or active 
treatment, or 
2. Lack of access, or 
3. Inadequate support (family and/or school and/or community) to use a lower level of 
care, or 
4. Patient lives alone, or lives with family members who are significantly impaired by 
psychiatric or substance abuse disorders, or 
5. Persistent hampering of evaluation or treatment by family, making evaluation or 
treatment in an outpatient setting ineffective, or 
6. Patient behavior which persists despite appropriate treatment in an outpatient 
setting and which either seriously disrupts family life or which arouses 
antagonism towards the patient, making treatment in an outpatient setting 
ineffective. 
<<<PAGE 941>>>
 
941 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.18.5 Any additional admission criteria must relate to observable characteristics of the 
child/adolescent.  Such criteria may include age and gender. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.18.6 The discharge criteria must relate to the continued need of the individual 
child/adolescent for services in a residential treatment facility.  Age in and of 
itself shall not be an appropriate basis for discharge from a residential treatment 
facility except that no resident may remain in a residential treatment facility after 
attaining the age of twenty-two. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 19 STAFF COMPOSITION 
Rule 51.19.1 A child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility shall continuously 
employ an adequate number of staff and an appropriate mix of staff to carry out 
its goals and objectives as well as to ensure the continuous provision of sufficient 
regular and emergency supervision of all patients 24 hours a day.  As a 
component of the written plan for services and staff composition, the psychiatric 
residential treatment facility shall submit a written staffing rationale which 
justifies the staff to be utilized, the mix of staff and the plan for appropriate 
supervision and training.  This staffing plan shall be based on the population to be 
served and the services to be provided.  The staffing plan and its rationale shall be 
subjected to approval by the Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.19.2 At least fifty percent of the professional staff hours shall be provided by full time 
employees. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.19.3 Professional staff are individuals who are qualified by training and experience to 
provide direct service under minimal supervision, and shall include, but not be 
limited to, the following: 
1. Registered Nurse;  
2. Occupational Therapist/Therapeutic Recreation Specialist/Rehabilitation 
Counselor; 
3. Physician; 
4. Child Psychiatrist; 
<<<PAGE 942>>>
 
942 
  
5. Psychologist; 
6. Licensed Clinical Social Worker/Licensed Professional Counselor; 
7. Teacher;  
8. Speech Pathologist; and 
9. Licensed Master Level Social Worker. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.19.4 Other professional disciplines may be included as professional staff provided that 
the discipline is from a field related to the treatment of mental illness, and the 
individual shall be licensed or certified in such discipline as required by state laws 
and regulations, and the individual shall have specialized training or experience in 
working with children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.19.5 The child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility shall have on staff 
an adequate number and mix of professional staff who meet the qualifications 
provided by these standards and other state laws and regulations.  The staffing 
plan shall meet each of the following requirements.  A single staff member may 
be counted against more than one requirement: 
1. At least one full time Registered Nurse. 
2. At least one additional person representing a professional staff category as 
delineated below shall be employed on a full-time basis: 
a. Physician; 
b. Child Psychiatrist; 
c. Psychologist; 
d. Licensed Clinical Social Worker/Licensed Professional Counselor;  
e. Teacher; or 
f. Licensed Professional Art Therapist. 
3. Each patient shall receive a minimum of 15 hours of therapy per week from among 
the following professional staff categories: 
a. Child Psychiatrist; 
b. Psychologist; 
<<<PAGE 943>>>
 
943 
  
c. Licensed Clinical Social Worker/Licensed Professional Counselor;  
d. Therapeutic Recreation Specialist; and 
e. Licensed Professional Art Therapist. 
4. One full-time equivalent professional staff member shall be employed for each 
seven residents. 
5. Each patient shall have a direct consultation at least once per week with the staff 
child psychiatrist or a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.19.6 The child/adolescent residential treatment facility shall ensure that an adequate 
number of professional staff is qualified by training and experience to provide 
clinical supervision of other staff and to provide programmatic direction.  The 
staffing composition pattern shall be subject to approval by the State Department 
of Health and shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 
1. A licensed Registered Nurse who has at least three years of experience working 
with children/adolescents; and/or 
2. A licensed psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner who has at least three years 
of experience working with children/adolescents; and/or 
3. A licensed physician who is a board certified or board eligible pediatrician or who 
is board eligible in family practice; 
4. A licensed physician who is a board certified or board eligible psychiatrist qualified 
in child psychiatry; 
5. A licensed psychologist who has specialized training and experience in the 
evaluation and treatment of mental disorders of children and/or adolescents; 
6. A licensed master level social worker who has a master’s degree and is clinically 
qualified by training and two years experience in working with mentally ill 
children/adolescents or a Licensed Professional Counselor who is clinically 
qualified by training and two years experience in working with mentally ill 
children/adolescents; 
7. A qualified therapeutic recreation specialist; 
8. A qualified rehabilitation counselor who has three years of experience in working 
with mentally ill children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 944>>>
 
944 
  
Rule 51.19.7 The child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility shall provide 
adequate supervision of patients in a safe therapeutic manner and shall meet the 
following minimum requirements: 
1. At least two direct care staff members shall be assigned to patient care 
responsibilities during all hours the patients are awake and not in school. 
2. At least one direct care staff member shall be assigned to direct care responsibilities 
for each five patients during all hours the patient are awake and not in school. 
3. At least one direct care staff member shall be assigned patient care responsibility 
for each ten patients, be awake, and be continuously available to the 
children/adolescents on each living unit during hours the patient are asleep.  A 
minimum of one additional direct care staff member for each fourteen 
children/adolescents shall be immediately available on site to assist with 
emergencies or problems which might occur at any time. 
4. At least one licensed nurse (registered nurse or practical nurse) shall be on duty at 
all times, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
5. During waking hours, one professional staff member (other than a nurse) shall be 
on duty for each 22 patients. 
6. Other appropriate professional staff shall be available to assist in emergencies on at 
least an on-call basis at all times. 
7. A licensed physician shall be available on at least an on-call basis at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 20 PSYCHIATRIC SERVICES 
Rule 51.20.1 Psychiatric services are under the supervision of a medical/clinical director, 
service chief or equivalent licensed physician who is qualified to provide the 
leadership required for an intensive treatment program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.20.2 The director of psychiatric services shall be a qualified child psychiatrist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.20.3 Primary psychiatric care for all patients in a child/adolescent psychiatric 
residential care facility shall be provided by a qualified child psychiatrist directly 
or at least by consultation; or either by a qualified psychiatric mental health nurse 
practitioner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 945>>>
 
945 
  
Rule 51.20.4 The number of psychiatrists and/or number of psychiatric mental health nurse 
practitioners is commensurate with the size and scope of the child/adolescent 
residential treatment program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.20.5 Psychiatrists in a child/adolescent residential treatment program who have not 
completed an approved child fellowship be supervised by or regularly consult 
with a qualified child psychiatrist with regard to evaluation, treatment, and 
discharge of children/adolescents within the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.20.6 All psychiatrists or psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners shall be licensed 
in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 21 MEDICAL SERVICES 
Rule 51.21.1 Physicians shall be available at all times to provide necessary medical and 
surgical diagnostic and treatment services, including specialized services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.21.2 If medical surgical diagnosis and treatment services are not available within the 
facility, qualified consultants or attending physicians are immediately available or 
arrangements are made to transfer patients to a general hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.21.3 All physicians shall be licensed in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 22 NURSING SERVICES 
Rule 51.22.1 Nursing services shall be under the direct supervision of a registered nurse who 
has had at least two years of experience in psychiatric or mental health nursing 
and at least one year of experience in a supervisory position. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.22.2 The number of registered professional nurses, licensed practical nurses, and other 
nursing personnel shall be adequate to formulate and carry out the nursing 
components of the individual treatment plan for each patient, and shall include at 
least one registered nurse for each sixty patients seven days a week.  There shall 
be at least one licensed nurse on a 24 hour basis, seven days a week, for each 
sixty patients.  The nurse staffing ratios, including licensed and unlicensed 
<<<PAGE 946>>>
 
946 
  
nursing personnel, shall be subject to approval by the Mississippi Department of 
Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.22.3 All registered nurses and practical nurses shall be licensed in the State of 
Mississippi 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 23 PSYCHOLOGICAL SERVICES 
Rule 51.23.1 Patients shall be provided psychological services, in accordance with their needs 
by a qualified psychologist. 
1. Services to patients include evaluations, consultations, therapy, and program 
development. 
2. Clinical psychological testing and evaluation procedures may only be provided by 
or under the supervision of a licensed and qualified psychologist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.23.2 Specialist with a Master’s or Bachelor’s degree in psychology shall be supervised 
by a qualified psychologist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 24 SOCIAL/CLINICAL  SERVICES 
Rule 51.24.1 Social/Clinical services are under the supervision of a licensed clinical social 
worker or licensed professional counselor. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.24.2 All social workers shall be licensed in the State of Mississippi.  All counselors 
shall have a minimum of a Master’s degree in counseling, or a related field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.24.3 Social/Clinical services staff is qualified and adequate to provide the following 
services: 
1. Psychosocial data for diagnosis and treatment planning; 
2. Direct therapeutic services to individual patients, patient groups or families; 
3. Develop community resources; and 
<<<PAGE 947>>>
 
947 
  
4. Participate in interdisciplinary conferences and meetings concerning treatment 
planning, including identification and utilization of other facilities and alternative 
forms of care and treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 25 ANCILLARY SERVICES 
Rule 51.25.1 Qualified therapists, consultants, assistants or aides are sufficient in number to 
provide comprehensive ancillary services, including at least occupational, 
recreational, or physical therapy or art therapy as needed, to assure that 
appropriate treatment is rendered for each patient, and to establish and maintain a 
therapeutic milieu. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 26 EDUCATIONAL SERVICES 
Rule 51.26.1 Educational and vocational services available to patients of the psychiatric 
residential treatment facility shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of the 
state law with regard to compulsory education. Compulsory education services 
may be provided directly by the residential treatment facility or may be provided 
by written agreement with the local school district. In any case, compulsory 
education services must be available either on the same site or in close physical 
proximity to the psychiatric residential treatment facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.26.2 Appropriate written agreements among the State Department of Education, all 
respective local school districts and the psychiatric residential treatment facility 
shall be made regarding the provision of educational services for those youths not 
eligible to be ruled "emotionally handicapped" under this State's Department of 
Education's referral to placement regulations and guidelines for handicapped 
children and youth. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.26.3 When compulsory education services are provided directly by the residential 
treatment facility, such services shall comply with the regulations of the State 
Board of Education. In such case, the psychiatric residential treatment facility 
shall comply with all appropriate requirements for the education of handicapped 
patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.26.4 Educational services shall be provided by licensed teachers who shall have at least 
a bachelor's degree in education from an accredited institution, shall have 
<<<PAGE 948>>>
 
948 
  
certification in special education, and preferably shall have training in the 
education of emotionally disturbed children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 27 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 51.27.1 Personnel policies and procedures shall be developed in writing, adopted, and 
maintained to promote the objectives of the facility and to provide for an adequate 
number of qualified personnel during all hours of operation to support the 
functions of the facility and the provision of high quality care. 
1. All personnel policies shall be reviewed and approved on an annual basis by the 
governing body. 
2. There shall be documentation to verify that the written personnel policies and 
procedures are explained and made available to each employee. 
3. The policies and procedures shall include a mechanism for determining that all 
personnel are medically and emotionally capable of performing assigned tasks 
and are free of communicable and infectious diseases. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.27.2 There shall be written policies and procedures for handling cases of patient 
neglect and abuse.  The policies and procedures on patient neglect or abuse shall 
be given to all personnel. Any alleged violations of these policies and procedures 
shall be investigated, and the results of such investigation shall be reviewed and 
approved by the director and reported to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.27.3 A personnel record shall be kept on each staff member and shall contain the 
following items, as appropriate: 
1. Application for employment; 
2. Written references and a record of verbal references; 
3. Verification of all training and experience, and licensure, certification, registration 
and/or renewals; 
4. Wage and salary information; 
5. Performance appraisals; 
6. Initial and subsequent health clearances; 
7. Disciplinary and counseling actions; 
<<<PAGE 949>>>
 
949 
  
8. Commendations;  
9. Criminal background check; and 
10. Record of orientation to the facility, its policies and procedures and the 
employee's position. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.27.4 For each position in the facility, there shall be a written job description that 
specifies the duties and responsibilities of the position and the minimum level of 
education, training, and/or related work experience required or needed to fulfill it.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 28 STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 51.28.1 The facility shall have a written plan of evidence of implementation of a program 
of staff development and in-service training that is consonant with the basic goals 
and objectives of the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.2 Staff development shall be under the supervision and direction of a committee or 
qualified person. This person or committee may delegate responsibility for any 
part of the program to appropriately qualified individuals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.3 The staff development plan shall include plans for orientation of new employees 
and shall specify subject areas to be covered in the orientation process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.4 Staff development program shall reflect all administrative and service changes in 
the facility and shall prepare personnel for promotions and responsibilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.5 A continuous professional education program shall be provided to keep the 
professional staff informed of significant clinical and administrative 
developments and skills. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.6 The facility shall provide continuing training for all staff and specific orientation 
for all new personnel in the principles of confidentiality, privacy, patients' rights, 
infection control, fire prevention, disaster preparedness, accident prevention and 
patient safety. 
<<<PAGE 950>>>
 
950 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.7 Specialized training shall be provided for staff working with children and 
adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.28.8 The facility shall have documentation of the staff development, in-service training 
and orientation activities of all employees. Facilities shall comply with 
recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and/or Mississippi State 
Department of Health regarding baseline employee TB testing and routine serial 
employee TB testing and education. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 29 PATIENT RIGHTS 
Rule 51.29.1 The facility shall support and protect the fundamental human, civil, constitutional, 
and statutory rights of each patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.2 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that describe the rights of 
patients and the means by which these rights are protected and exercised. These 
rights shall include the following: 
1.  Each patient shall have impartial access to treatment, regardless of race, religion, 
sex, ethnicity, age, or handicap; 
2. Each patient's personal dignity shall be recognized and respected in the provision of 
all care and treatment; 
3. Each patient shall receive individualized treatment, which shall include at least the 
following: 
a. The provision of adequate and human services, regardless of source(s) of 
financial support; 
b. The provision of services within the least restrictive environment possible; 
c. The provision of an individual treatment plan; 
d. The periodic review of the patient's treatment plan; 
e. The active participation of patients over 12 years of age and their responsible 
parent, relative, or guardian in planning for treatment; and 
f. The provision of an adequate number of competent, qualified, and experienced 
professional clinical staff to supervise and implement the treatment plan. 
<<<PAGE 951>>>
 
951 
  
4. Each  
a. The patient's family and significant others, regardless of their age, shall be 
allowed to visit the patient, unless such visits are clinically contraindicated; 
b. Suitable areas shall be provided for patients to visit in private, unless such 
privacy is contraindicated by the patient's treatment plan; 
c. Patients shall be allowed to send and receive mail without hindrance; 
d. Patients shall be allowed to conduct private telephone conversations with family 
and friends, unless clinically contraindicated; 
e. If therapeutic indications necessitate restrictions on visitors, telephone calls, or 
other communications, those restrictions shall be evaluated for therapeutic 
effectiveness by the clinically responsible staff at least every seven days; and 
f. If limitations on visitors, telephone calls, or other communications are indicated 
for practical reasons (for example, expense of travel or phone calls) such 
limitations shall be determined with the participation of the patient and the 
patient's family. All such restrictions shall be fully explained to the patient and 
the patient's family. 
5. Each patient has the right to request the opinion of a consultant at his or her 
expense or to request an in-house review of the individual treatment plan, as 
provided in specific procedures of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.3 Each patient shall be informed of his or her rights in a language the patient 
understands. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.4 Each patient shall receive a written statement of patient rights, and a copy of this 
statement shall be posted in various areas of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.5 As appropriate, the patient, the patient's family, or the patient's legal guardian 
shall be fully informed about the following items: 
1. The rights of patients; 
2. The professional staff members responsible for his or her care, their professional 
status, and their staff relationship; 
3. The nature of the care; procedures, and treatment that he or she will receive; 
<<<PAGE 952>>>
 
952 
  
4. The current and future use and disposition of products of special observation and 
audiovisual techniques, such as one-way vision mirrors, tape recorders, television, 
movies, or photographs; 
5. The risks, side effects; and benefits of all medications and treatment procedures 
used, especially those that are unusual or experimental; 
6. The alternate treatment procedures that are available; 
7. The right to refuse to participate in any research project without compromising his 
or her access to facility services; 
8. The right, to the extent permitted by law, to refuse specific medications or 
treatments procedures; 
9. The responsibility of the facility, when the patient refuses treatment, to seek 
appropriate legal alternatives or orders of involuntary treatment, or, in accordance 
with professional standards, to terminate the relationship with the patient upon 
reasonable notice; 
10. As appropriate, the cost, itemized when possible, of services rendered; 
11. The source of the facility's reimbursement, and any limitations placed on duration 
of services; 
12. The reasons for any proposed change in the professional staff responsible for the 
patient, or for any transfer of the patient either within or outside of the facility; 
13. The rules and regulations of the facility applicable to his or her conduct; 
14. The right to initiate a complaint or grievance procedure and the appropriate means 
of requesting a hearing or review of the complaint; 
15. The discharge plans; and 
16. The plans for meeting continuing mental and physical health requirements 
following discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.6 In accordance with the requirements of any applicable law or any other applicable 
standard in this manual, a written, dated, and signed informed consent from shall 
be obtained from the patient, the patient's family, or the patient's legal guardian, 
as appropriate, for participation in any research project and for use or 
performance of the following: 
1. Surgical procedures; 
2. Electroconvulsive therapy; 
<<<PAGE 953>>>
 
953 
  
3. Unusual medications; 
4. Hazardous assessment procedures; 
5. Audiovisual equipment; and 
6. Other procedures where consent is required by law. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.7 The maintenance of confidentiality of communications between patients and staff 
and of all information recorded in patient records shall be the responsibility of all 
staff. (Refer to the patient records section of this manual). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.8 The facility shall provide continuing training for all staff and specific orientation 
for all new personnel in the principles of confidentiality and privacy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.29.9 The patient shall be allowed to work for the service provider only under the 
following conditions: 
1. The work is part of the individual treatment plan; 
2. The work is performed voluntarily; 
3. The patient receives wages commensurate with the economic value of the work; 
and 
4. The work project complies with local, state, and federal laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 30 SPECIAL TREATMENT PROCEDURES 
Rule 51.30.1 Treatment procedures that require special justification shall include, but not 
necessarily be limited to, the following: 
1. The use of restraint; 
2. The use of seclusion; 
3. The use of electroconvulsive therapy and other forms of convulsive therapy; 
4. The performance of psychosurgery of other surgical procedures for the intervention 
in, or alteration of, a mental, emotional, or behavioral disorder; 
<<<PAGE 954>>>
 
954 
  
5. The use of behavior modification procedures that use painful stimuli; 
6. The use of unusual medications and investigational and experimental drugs; 
7. The prescribing and administering of drugs for maintenance use that have abuse 
potential (usually considered to be Schedule II drugs), and drugs that are known 
to involve substantial risk or to be associated with undesirable side effects; and 
8. The use of research projects that involve inconvenience or risk to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.2 The rationale for using special treatment procedures shall be clearly stated in the 
patient's record. 
1. When appropriate, there shall be evidence in the patient's record that proposed 
special treatment procedures have been reviewed before implementation by the 
head of the professional staff and or his or her designee. 
2. The plan for using special treatment procedures shall be consistent with the 
patient's rights and the facility's policies governing the use of such procedures. 
3. The clinical indications for the use of special treatment procedures shall be 
documented in the patient's record. 
4. The clinical indications for the use of special treatment procedures shall outweigh 
the known contraindications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of 
restraint or seclusion. 
1. The use of restraint or seclusion shall require clinical justification and shall be 
employed only to prevent a patient from injuring himself or others, or to prevent 
serious disruption of the therapeutic environment. Restraint or seclusion shall not 
be employed as punishment or for the convenience of staff. 
2. The rationale for the use of restraint or seclusion shall address the inadequacy of 
less restrictive intervention techniques. 
3. To ascertain that the procedure is justified, a physician shall conduct a clinical 
assessment of the patient before writing an order for the use of restraint or 
seclusion. 
4. A written order from a physician shall be required for the use of restraint. 
5. A written order from a physician shall be required for the use of seclusion for 
longer than one hour. 
<<<PAGE 955>>>
 
955 
  
6. Written orders for the use of restraint or seclusion shall be time-limited. 
7. The written approval of the head of the professional staff and/or his or her designee 
shall be required when restraint or seclusion is utilized for longer than 24 hours. 
8. PRN orders shall not be used to authorize the use of restraint or seclusion. 
9. All uses of restraint or seclusion shall be reported daily to the head of the 
professional staff and/or his or her designee. 
10. The head of the professional staff and/or his or her designee shall review daily all 
uses of restraint or seclusion and investigate unusual or possibly unwarranted 
patterns of utilization. 
11. Staff, who implement written orders for restraint and seclusion shall have 
documented training in the proper use of the procedure for which the order was 
written. 
12. Restraint or seclusion shall not be used in a manner that causes undue physical 
discomfort, harm, or pain to the patient. 
13. Appropriate attention shall be paid every 15 minutes to a patient in restraint or 
seclusion, especially in regard to regular meals, bathing, and use of the toilet. 
14. There shall be documentation in the patient's record that such attention was given 
to the patient. 
15. Under the following conditions, restraint or seclusion may be employed in an 
emergency without a written order from a physician: 
16. The written order for restraint or seclusion is given by a member of the 
professional staff who is qualified by experience and training in the proper use of 
the procedure for which the order is written; 
17. The professional staff member writing the order has observed and assessed the 
patient before writing the order; and 
18. The written order of the physician who is responsible for the patient's medical 
care is obtained within not more than 24 hours after initial employment of the 
restraint or seclusion. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.4 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of time-
out and the documentation of such procedures in the case record. 
1. The use of time-out shall require clinical justification and shall not be employed for 
the convenience of staff. 
<<<PAGE 956>>>
 
956 
  
2. Time-out procedures shall meet the following requirements: 
3. A child/adolescent placed in time-out shall be under visual observation at intervals 
of fifteen minutes or less while in time-out;  
4. A locked door shall not be a component of time-out; 
5. Time-out shall be limited to a maximum of thirty minutes at one time for a child 
age ten years or under and shall be limited to a maximum of sixty minutes at one 
time for an adolescent age eleven years or older; and 
6. No child/adolescent shall be in time-out for more than four hours in any 24 hour 
period. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.5 Electroconvulsive (or other forms of convulsive therapies) shall not be 
administered in a child/adolescent psychiatric residential treatment facility but 
may be administered in an acute care medical or psychiatric hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.6 The facility shall have policies that prohibit the performance of psychosurgery or 
other surgical procedures for the intervention in, or alteration of, a mental, 
emotional, or behavioral disorder in children or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.7 Behavior modification procedures that use painful stimuli shall be documented in 
the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.8 The written informed consent of the patient for the use of behavior modification 
procedures that use painful stimuli shall be obtained and made part of the patient's 
record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
1. When required, the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian 
shall be obtained and made part of the patient's record. The family and/or 
guardian may withdraw consent at any time. 
2. In cases dealing with children or adolescents, the responsible parent(s), relative, or 
guardian and, when appropriate, the patient shall give written, dated, and signed 
informed consent. The family and/or guardian and, when appropriate, the child or 
adolescent patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 957>>>
 
957 
  
Rule 51.30.9 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the use of 
unusual medications and investigational and experimental drugs. 
1. Unusual or experimental drugs shall be reviewed before use by the research review 
committee, the patient rights' review committee, or another appropriate peer 
review committee. 
2. Investigational drugs shall be used only under the direct supervision of the 
principal investigator and with the approval of the physician members of the 
professional staff or an appropriate committee of the professional staff, the 
research review committee, and appropriate federal, state, and local agencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.10 A central unit shall be established to maintain essential information on 
investigational drugs, such as drug dosage form, dosage range, storage 
requirements, adverse reactions, usage, and contraindications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.11 Investigational drugs shall not be administered to children or adolescents in a 
residential treatment facility, unless approved in writing by the Mississippi 
Department of Health on a case by case basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.12 Nurses may administer investigational drugs only after receiving basic 
pharmacologic information about the drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.13 The written informed consent of the patient for the use of unusual medications or 
investigational or experimental drugs shall be obtained and made part of the 
patient's record. The patient may withdraw consent at any time. 
1. When required, the written informed consent of the family and/or legal guardian for 
the use of unusual medication or investigational or experimental drugs shall be 
obtained and made part of the patient record. The family and/or guardian may 
withdraw consent at any time. 
2. In cases dealing with children and adolescents, the responsible parent(s), relative, 
or guardian and, when appropriate, the patient shall give written, dated, and 
signed informed consent, unless prohibited by law. The family and/or guardian 
and, when appropriate, the child or adolescent patient may withdraw consent at 
any time. 
<<<PAGE 958>>>
 
958 
  
3. The denial of consent to take unusual medications of investigational or 
experimental drugs shall not be cause for denying or altering services indicated 
for the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.14 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that govern the prescribing 
and administering of drugs for maintenance use that have abuse potential (usually 
considered to be Schedule II drugs), and drugs that are known to involve a 
substantial risk or be associated with undesirable side effects. 
1. Drugs that have abuse potential shall be prescribed and administered for 
maintenance use only when the following criteria are met: 
2. A physician member of the professional staff has reviewed the patient's record and 
has recorded the reasons for prescribing the drug(s) in the patient's record; 
3. The prescribed drug is listed in the facility's formulary; and 
4. Prior to the administration of the drug, the patient and, when required by law, the 
patient's parent(s) or guardian are informed orally and in writing, and, if possible, 
in the patient's native language, of the benefits and hazards of the drug. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.30.15 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that protect the rights of 
patients involved in research projects that involve inconvenience or risk to the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 31 PATIENT RECORDS 
Rule 51.31.1 A patient record shall be maintained, in accordance with accepted professional 
principles, for each patient admitted for care in the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.2 Such records shall be kept confidential and only authorized personnel shall have 
access to the record. Staff members and other persons having access to patient 
records shall be required to abide by the written policies regarding confidentiality 
of patient records and disclosure of information in the record, as well as all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.3 The facility shall have written policies and protect the confidentiality of patient 
records and govern the disclosure of information in the records. The policies and 
<<<PAGE 959>>>
 
959 
  
procedures shall specify the conditions under which information on applicants or 
patients may be disclosed and the procedures for releasing such information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.4 A patient of his or her authorized representative may consent to the release of 
information provided that written consent is given on a form containing the 
following information: 
1. Name of patient; 
2. Name of program; 
3. The name of the person, agency or organization to which the information is to e 
disclosed; 
4. The specific information to be disclosed; 
5. The purpose for the disclosure; 
6. The date the consent was signed and the signature of the individual witnessing the 
consent; 
7. The signature of the patient, parent, guardian or authorized representative; and 
8. A notice that the consent is valid only for a specified period of time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.5 The written consent of a patient, or his or her authorized representative, to the 
disclosure of information shall be considered valid only if the following 
conditions have been met: 
1. The patient or the representative shall be informed, in a manner calculated to assure 
his or her understanding, of the specific type of information that has been 
requested and, if known, the benefits and disadvantages of releasing the 
information; 
2. The patient or the representative shall give consent voluntarily; 
3. The patient or the representative shall be informed that the provision of services is 
not contingent upon his or her decision concerning the release of information; and 
4. The patient's consent shall be acquired in accordance with all applicable federal, 
state, and local laws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 960>>>
 
960 
  
Rule 51.31.6 Every consent for release of information, the actual date the information was 
released, the specific information released, and the signature of the staff member 
who released the information shall be made a part of the patient record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.7 In a life-threatening situation or when an individual's condition or situation 
precludes the possibility of obtaining written consent, the facility may release 
pertinent medical information to the medical personnel responsible for the 
individual's care without the individual's consent and without the authorization of 
the chief executive officer or a designee, if obtaining such authorization would 
cause an excessive delay in delivering treatment to the individual. 
1. When information has been released under emergency conditions, the staff member 
responsible for the release of information shall enter all pertinent details of the 
transaction into the individual's record including at least the following items: 
2. The date the information was released; 
3. The person to whom the information was released; 
4. The reason the information was released; 
5. The reason written consent could not be obtained; and 
6. The specific information released. 
7. The patient or applicant shall be informed that the information was released as soon 
as possible after the release of information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.31.8 Patient records shall not be removed from the facility except upon subpoena and 
court order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 32 PRESERVATION AND STORAGE 
Rule 51.32.1 Records shall be preserved, either in the original or by microfilm, for a period of 
time not less than that determined by the statue of limitations in the State of 
Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.32.2 Written policies and procedures shall govern the compilation, storage, 
dissemination, and accessibility of patient records. The policies and procedures 
shall be designed to assure that the facility fulfills its responsibility to safeguard 
and protect the patient record against loss, unauthorized alteration, or disclosure 
<<<PAGE 961>>>
 
961 
  
of information; to assure that each patient record contains all required 
information; to uniformity in the format and forms in use in patient records; to 
require entries in patient records to be dated and signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.32.3 The facility shall provide adequate facilities for the storage, processing, and 
handling of patient records, including suitably locked and secured rooms and 
files.  When a facility stores patient data on magnetic tape, computer files, or 
other types of automated information systems, adequate security measures shall 
prevent inadvertent or unauthorized access to such data. A written policy shall 
govern the disposal of patient records. Methods of disposal shall be designed to 
assure the confidentiality of information in the records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 33 PERSONNEL 
Rule 51.33.1 The patient records department shall maintain, control, and supervise the patient 
records, and shall be responsible for maintaining the quality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.33.2 A qualified medical record individual who is employed on at least a part-time 
basis, consistent with the needs of the facility and the professional staff, shall be 
responsible for the patient records department. This individual shall be a 
registered record administrator or an accredited record technician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.33.3 When it can be demonstrated that the size, location or needs of the facility do not 
justify employment of a qualified individual, the facility must secure the 
consultative assistance of a registered record administrator at least twice a year to 
assure that the patient record department is adequate to meet the needs of the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 34 CENTRALIZATION OF REPORTS 
Rule 51.34.1 All clinical information pertaining to a patient's stay shall be centralized in the 
patient's record. The original or all reports originating in the facility shall be filed 
in the medical record. Appropriate patient records shall be kept on the unit where 
the patient is being treated and shall be directly accessible to the clinician caring 
for the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 962>>>
 
962 
  
Subchapter 35 CONTENT OF RECORDS 
Rule 51.35.1 The medical record shall contain sufficient information to justify the diagnosis 
and warrant the treatment and end results. The patient record shall describe the 
patient's health status at the time of admission, the services provided and the 
patient's progress in the facility, and the patient's health status at the time of 
discharge. The patient record shall provide information for the review and 
evaluation of the treatment provided to the patient. When appropriate, data in the 
patient record shall be used in training, research, evaluation, and quality assurance 
programs. When indicated, the patient record shall contain documentation that the 
rights of the patient and of the patient's family are protected.  The patient record 
shall contain documentation of the patient's and, as appropriate, family members' 
involvement in the patient's treatment program. The patient record shall contain 
identifying data that is recorded on standardized forms. This identifying data shall 
include the following: 
1. Full name; 
2. Home address; 
3. Home telephone number; 
4. Date of birth; 
5. Sex; 
6. Race or ethnic origin; 
7. Next of kin; 
8. Education; 
9. Marital status; 
10. Type and place of employment; 
11. Date of initial contact or admission to the facility; 
12. Legal status, including relevant legal documents; 
13. Other identifying data as indicated; 
14. Date the information was gathered; and 
15. Signature of the staff member gathering the information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 963>>>
 
963 
  
Rule 51.35.2 The patient record shall contain information on any unusual occurrences such as 
the following: 
1. Treatment complications; 
2. Accidents or injuries to the patient; 
3. Morbidity; 
4. Death of a patient; and 
5. Procedures that place the patient at risk or that cause unusual pain. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.3 As necessary, the patient record shall contain documentation of the consent of the 
patient, appropriate family members or guardians for admission, treatment, 
evaluation, aftercare, or research. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.4 The patient record shall contain both physical and psychiatric diagnoses that have 
been made using a recognized diagnostic system. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.5 The patient record shall contain reports of laboratory, roentgenographic, or other 
diagnostic procedures, and reports of medical/surgical services when performed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.6 The patient record shall contain correspondence concerning the patient's 
treatment, and signed and dated notations of telephone calls concerning the 
patient's treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.7 A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's record within a reasonable 
period of time (not to exceed 14-days) following discharge as determined by the 
professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.8 The patient record shall contain a plan for aftercare. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.9 All entries in the patient record shall be signed and dated. Symbols and 
abbreviations shall be used only if they have been approved by the professional 
<<<PAGE 964>>>
 
964 
  
staff, and only when there is an explanatory legend. Symbols and abbreviations 
shall not be used in the recording of diagnoses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.35.10 When a patient dies, a summation statement shall be entered in the record in the 
form of a discharge summary. The summation statement shall include the 
circumstances leading to death and shall be signed by a physician. An autopsy 
shall be performed whenever possible. When an autopsy is performed, a 
provisional anatomic diagnosis shall be recorded in the patient's record within 72 
hours. The complete protocol shall be made part of the record within three 
months. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 36 PROMPTNESS OF RECORD COMPLETION 
Rule 51.36.1 Current records shall be completed promptly upon admission. Records of patients 
discharged shall be completed within 14 days following discharge. The staff 
regulations of the facility shall provide for the suspension or termination of staff 
privileges of physicians who are persistently delinquent in completing records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 37 IDENTIFICATION, FILING AND INDEXING 
Rule 51.37.1 A system of identification and filing to ensure the prompt location of a patient's 
medical record shall be maintained. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.37.2 The patient index cards shall bear at least the full name of the patient, the address, 
the birth date, and the medical record number. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.37.3 Records shall be indexed according to disease and physician and shall be kept up 
to date. For indexing, any recognized system may be used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.37.4 Indexing shall be current within six months following discharge of the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 38 FACILITY AND PROGRAM EVALUATION 
<<<PAGE 965>>>
 
965 
  
Rule 51.38.1 Program evaluation is a management tool primarily utilized by the facility's 
administration to assess and monitor, on a priority bases, a variety of facility, 
service, and programmatic activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.2 The facility shall have a written statement of goals and objectives. 
1. The goals and objectives shall result from a planning process. 
2. The goals and objectives shall be related to the needs of the population served. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.3 The written statement of the goals and objectives of the facility service and 
programmatic activities shall be provided to the governing body and facility 
administration and shall be made available to staff.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.4 The facility shall have a written plan for evaluating its progress in attaining its 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.5 The written plan shall specify the information to be collected and the methods to 
be used in retrieving and analyzing this information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.6 The written plan shall specify methods for assessing the utilization of staff and 
other resources to meet facility goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.7 The written plan shall specify when evaluations shall be conducted. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.8 The written plan shall specify the criteria to be used in assessing the facility's 
progress in attaining its goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-3 
Rule 51.38.9 The written plan shall require an explanation of any failure to achieve facility 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 966>>>
 
966 
  
Rule 51.38.10 There shall be documentation that the goals and objectives of facility, service, and 
programmatic activities shall be evaluated at least annually and revised as 
necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.11 There shall be documentation that the results of the evaluation shall be provided 
to the governing body and facility administration and shall be made available to 
staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.38.12 There shall be documentation that the findings of the evaluation have influenced 
facility and program planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 39 FISCAL MANAGEMENT 
Rule 51.39.1 The facility shall annually prepare a formal, written budget of expected revenues 
and expenses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.2 The budget shall categorize revenues for the facility by source. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.3 The budget shall categorize expenses by the types of services of programs 
provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.4 The budget shall be reviewed and approved by the governing body prior to the 
beginning of the fiscal year. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.5 Revisions made in the budget during the fiscal year shall be reviewed and 
approved by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.6 The fiscal management system shall include a fee schedule. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.7 The facility shall maintain current, written schedules of rate and charge policies 
that have been approved by the governing body. 
<<<PAGE 967>>>
 
967 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.39.8 The fee schedule shall be accessible to personnel and to individuals served by the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 40 UTILIZATION REVIEW 
Rule 51.40.1 The facility shall demonstrate appropriate allocation of its resources by conducting 
a utilization review program. The program shall address underutilization, over-
utilization, and inefficient scheduling of the facility's resources. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.2 The facility shall implement a written plan that describes the utilization review 
program and governs its operations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.3 The written plan shall include at least the following: 
1. a delineation of the responsibilities and authority of those involved in utilization 
review activities, including members of the professional staff, the utilization 
review committees, the administration, and when applicable, any qualified outside 
organization contracted to perform review activities; 
2. a conflict of interest policy applicable to everyone involved in utilization review 
activities; 
3. a confidentiality policy applicable to all utilization review activities and to resultant 
findings and recommendations; 
4. a description of the method(s) used to identify utilization-related problems; 
5. the procedures for conducting concurrent review; and 
6. a mechanism for initiating discharge planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.4 The written plan shall be approved by the professional staff, the administration, 
and the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.5 The methods for identifying utilization-related problems shall include analysis of 
the appropriateness and clinical necessity of admission, continued stays, and 
supportive services; analysis of delays in the provision of supportive services; and 
<<<PAGE 968>>>
 
968 
  
examination of the findings of related quality assurance activities and other 
current relevant documentation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.6 Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, profile analyses; the results 
of patient care evaluation studies, medication usage reviews, and infection control 
activities; and reimbursement agency utilization reports that are program/service-
specific. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.7 To identify problems and document the impact of corrective actions taken, 
retrospective monitoring of the facility's utilization of resources shall be ongoing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.8 The procedures for conducting concurrent review shall specify the time period 
following admission within which the review is to be initiated and the length-of-
stay norms and percentiles to be used in assigning continued stay review dates. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.9 Sources of payment shall not be the sole basis for determining which patients are 
to be reviewed concurrently. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.10 Written measurable criteria and length-of-stay norms that have been approved by 
the professional staff shall be utilized in performing concurrent review and shall 
be included in, or appended to, the facility's utilization review plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.11 Length-of-stay norms must be specific to diagnoses, problems, or procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.12 To facilitate discharge when care is no longer required, discharge planning shall 
be initiated as soon as the need for it can be determined. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.13 Criteria for initiating discharge planning may be developed to identify those 
patients whose diagnoses, problems or psychosocial circumstances usually require 
discharge planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 969>>>
 
969 
  
Rule 51.40.14 Discharge planning shall not be limited to placement in long term facilities, but 
shall also include provision for, or referral to, services that the patient may require 
to improve or maintain his or her mental health status. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.15 The facility's utilization review program, including the written plan, criteria, and 
length-of-stay norms, shall be reviewed and evaluated at least annually and revised 
as necessary to reflect the findings of the program's activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.16 A record shall be maintained or reviews of, and revisions to, the utilization review 
program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.40.17 The findings of such reviews shall be reported to the appropriate committee of the 
professional staff and to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 41 INDIVIDUALIZED COMPREHENSIVE TREATMENT 
PLANNING INTAKES 
Rule 51.41.1 Written policies and procedures governing the intake process shall specify the 
following: 
1. The information to be obtained on all applicants or referrals for admission; 
2. The records to be kept on all applicants; 
3. The statistical data to be kept on the intake process; and 
4. The procedures to be followed when an applicant or a referral is found ineligible 
for admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.41.2 Criteria for determining the eligibility of children/adolescents for admission shall 
be clearly stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.41.3 The intake procedure shall include an initial assessment of the child/adolescent. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 42 INTAKE ASSESSMENT 
<<<PAGE 970>>>
 
970 
  
Rule 51.42.1   The intake assessment shall be done by a member of the professional staff. The 
results of the intake assessment shall be clearly explained to the patient (when 
appropriate) and to the patient's parents, legal guardian, or other authorized 
representative. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13: 
Rule 51.42.2 Acceptance of a child/adolescent for treatment shall be based on an intake 
procedure that meets the following conclusions: 
1. The treatment required by the patient is appropriate to the intensity and restrictions 
of care provided by the facility or program component; and/or 
2. The treatment required can be appropriately provided by the facility or program 
component; and 
3. The alternatives for less intensive and restrictive treatment are not available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.3 During the intake process, every effort shall be made to assure that the 
child/adolescent and the parents, legal guardian, or other authorized adult 
understand the following: 
1. The nature and goals of the treatment program; 
2. The treatment costs to be borne by the family, if any; and 
3. The rights and responsibilities of patients, including the rules governing patient 
conduct and the types of infractions that can result in disciplinary action or 
discharge from the facility or program component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.4  Facilities shall have policies and procedures that adequately address the following 
items for each patient: 
1. Responsibility for medical and dental care, including consents for medical or 
surgical care and treatment; 
2. When appropriate, arrangements for family participation in the treatment program; 
3. Arrangements for clothing, allowances, and gifts; 
4. Arrangements regarding the patient's departure from the facility or program; and 
5. Arrangements regarding the patient's departure from the facility or program against 
clinical advice. 
<<<PAGE 971>>>
 
971 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.5 When a patient is admitted on court order, the rights and responsibilities of the 
patient and the patient's family shall be explained to them. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.6 This explanation of the rights and responsibilities of the patient and the patient's 
family shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.7 Sufficient information shall be collected during the intake process to develop a 
preliminary treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.42.8 Staff members who will be working with the patient but who did not participate in 
the initial assessment shall be informed about the patient prior to meeting him or 
her. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 43  ASSESSMENTS 
Rule 51.43.1 Within 7 days of admission, the staff shall conduct a complete assessment of each 
patient's needs. The assessment shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited 
to physical, emotional, behavioral, social, recreational, nutritional, and when 
appropriate, legal and vocational. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.2 A licensed physician or either a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner shall 
be responsible for assessing each patient's physical health. The health assessment 
shall include a medical history; a physical examination; and neurological 
examination when indicated and a laboratory workup. The physical examination 
shall be completed within 24 hours after admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.3 In facilities serving children and adolescents, each patient's physical health 
assessment shall also include evaluations of the following: motor development 
and functioning; sensorimotor functioning; speech, hearing, and language 
functioning, visual functioning; and immunization status. Facilities serving 
children and adolescents shall have access to all necessary diagnostic tools and 
personnel available to perform physical health assessments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 972>>>
 
972 
  
Rule 51.43.4 A registered nurse shall be responsible for obtaining a nursing history and 
assessment at the time of admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.5 A psychiatric evaluation of each patient shall be completed and entered into the 
patient's record. The evaluation shall include, but not be limited to, the following 
items: 
1. A history of previous emotional, behavioral, and psychiatric problems and 
treatment; 
2. The patient's current emotional and behavioral functioning; 
3. When indicated, psychological assessments, including intellectual and personality 
testing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.6 When the admitting psychiatrist is not a qualified child psychiatrist, the 
psychiatric evaluation shall be reviewed by a qualified child psychiatrist who 
shall also directly evaluate the child/adolescent within seven days of admission to 
the psychiatric residential treatment facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.7 A social assessment of each patient shall be completed by the qualified social 
worker and entered in the patient's record. The assessment shall include 
information relating to the following areas, as necessary: 
1. Environment and home 
2. Religion 
3. Childhood developmental history 
4. Financial status 
5. The social, peer-group, and environmental setting from which the patient comes; 
6. The patient's family circumstances, including the constellation of the family group, 
the current living situation, and social, ethnic, cultural, emotional, and health 
factors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.8 An educational assessment of each patient shall be completed by a qualified 
special education teacher and entered into the patient's record. The assessment 
shall include, but not be limited, to the following information: 
<<<PAGE 973>>>
 
973 
  
1. Previous school history with regard to academic, social, and behavioral skills and 
deficits as well as school disciplinary actions; and  
2. Psychometric measures as appropriate for the child/adolescent. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.9 A recreational assessment of each patient shall be completed by the qualified 
recreational therapist and shall include information relating to the individual's 
current skills, talents, aptitudes, and interests. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.10 A nutritional assessment shall be conducted by the food service supervisor or 
registered dietitian and shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.11 When appropriate, a vocational assessment of the patient shall be undertaken and 
shall include, but not be limited to, the following areas: 
1. Vocational history; 
2. Educational history, including academic and vocational training, and 
3. A preliminary discussion between the individual and the staff member doing the 
assessment concerning the individual's past experiences with, and attitudes toward 
work, present motivations or areas of interest, and possibilities for future 
education, training, and employment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.43.12 When appropriate, a legal assessment of the patient shall be undertaken and shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following areas: 
1. A legal history; and 
2. A preliminary discussion to determine the extent to which the individual's legal 
situation will influence his or her progress in treatment and the urgency of the 
legal situation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13
Subchapter 44 TREATMENT PLANS  
Rule 51.44.1. Each patient shall have a written individual treatment plan that is based on 
assessments of his or her clinical needs.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 974>>>
 
974 
  
Rule 51.44.2. Overall development and implementation of the treatment plan shall be assigned 
to an appropriate member of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.44.3. The master treatment plan shall be developed within fourteen days of admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.44.4. Appropriate therapeutic efforts may begin before a fully developed treatment plan 
is finalized. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.44.5. An initial interdisciplinary treatment plan shall be completed for each patient 
within 24 hours of admission to a psychiatric residential treatment facility. The 
initial treatment plan shall include: 
1. Admission diagnosis or diagnostic impression; 
2. A brief description or the patient's problems, strengths, conditions, disabilities, or 
needs; 
3. Objectives relating to the patient's problems, conditions, disabilities and needs, 
and the treatments, therapies, and staff actions which will be implemented to 
accomplish these objectives; and 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.44.6. If the patient's stay in a facility exceeds ten days the interdisciplinary team shall 
develop a comprehensive treatment plan within fourteen days of admission which 
shall be reviewed at least monthly for the first six months, and at least every 
ninety days thereafter.  The comprehensive treatment plan shall include: 
1. Diagnosis; 
2. A brief description of the patient's problems, strengths, conditions, disabilities, 
functional deficits or needs; 
3. A brief description of the treatment and treatment planning which demonstrates 
that the program is addressing the functional deficits of the patient which 
substantiated the patient's eligibility for admission to the psychiatric residential 
treatment facility; 
4. Goals to address the patient's problems, conditions, disabilities, and needs which 
indicate the expected duration of the patient's need for services in the psychiatric 
residential treatment facility; 
<<<PAGE 975>>>
 
975 
  
5. Objectives relating to the patient's goals.  Objectives must be written to reflect the 
expected progress of the patient. Interventions for accomplishing these objectives 
should be specific; 
6. Specific treatments, therapies and staff interventions which will be implemented 
to accomplish each of the objectives and goals. These must be stated clearly to 
enable all staff members participating in the treatment program to implement the 
goals and objectives; 
7. If the facility utilizes a case management system, the name of the clinical staff 
member, designated as case coordinator, exercising primary responsibility for the 
patient; 
8. Identification of the staff members who will provide the specified services, 
experiences and therapies; 
9. Documentation of participation by the patient in the development of the treatment 
plan whenever possible and by the patient's parent or guardian and/or authorized 
adult, and by representatives of the patient's school district, where appropriate; 
10. Date for the next scheduled review of the treatment plan; 
11. Documentation that information obtained from the patient's school district of 
origin, when available, was considered in developing or revising the 
comprehensive treatment plan; and 
12. A copy of an individual's education plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.44.7. When appropriate, the patient and the patient's parents, legal guardian, or 
authorized adult shall participate in the development of his or her treatment plan, 
and such participation shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 45 PROGRESS NOTES 
Rule 51.45.1. Progress notes shall be recorded by the physician, psychiatric mental health nurse 
practitioners, nurse, social worker and, when appropriate, others significantly 
involved in treatment. The frequency of progress notes is determined by the 
condition of the patient but should be recorded at least monthly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.45.2. Progress notes shall be entered in the patient's record and shall include the 
following: 
<<<PAGE 976>>>
 
976 
  
1. Documentation of implementation of the treatment plan; 
2. Documentation of all treatment rendered to the patient; 
3. Documentation of all progress in the patient's education program as determined in 
the patient's individual education plan; 
4. Description of changes in the patient's condition; and 
5. Descriptions of the response of the patient to treatment, the outcome of treatment, 
and the response of significant others to important inter-current events. 
Rule 51.45.3 Progress notes shall be dated and signed by the individual making the entry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rules 51.45.4 All entries involving subjective interpretation of the patient's progress should be 
supplemented with a description of the actual behavior observed. 
Subchapter 46 TREATMENT PLAN REVIEW  
Rule 51.46.1 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be regularly conducted to review and 
evaluate each patient's treatment plan and his or her progress in attaining the 
stated treatment goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.46.2 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be documented and the results of the 
review and evaluation shall be recorded in the patient's record. The review and 
update shall be completed no later than thirty (30) days following the first 14 days 
of treatment and at least monthly for the first six months and at least every 90 
days thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 47 DISCHARGE PLANNING/AFTERCARE 
Rule 51.47.1 The facility maintains a centralized coordinated program to ensure that each 
patient has a planned program of continuing care which meets his post-discharge 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.47.2 Each patient shall have an individualized discharge plan which reflects input from 
all disciplines involved in his care. The patient, patient's family, and/or significant 
others shall be involved in the discharge planning process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 977>>>
 
977 
  
Rule 51.47.3 An initial discharge plan shall be developed within 14 days of admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.47.4 The facility shall maintain written discharge planning policies and procedures 
which describe: 
1. How the discharge coordinator will function, and his authority and relationships 
with the facility's staff; 
2. The time period in which each patient's need for discharge planning is determined 
(within fourteen days of admission); 
3. The maximum time period after which re-evaluation of each patient's discharge 
plan is made; 
4. Local resources available to the facility and the patient to assist in developing and 
implementing individual discharge plan; and 
5. Provisions for periodic review and re-evaluation of the facility's discharge planning 
program (at least annually). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.47.5 An interdisciplinary case conference shall be held prior to the patient's discharge. 
Representatives from aftercare agencies including the anticipated school system 
will be encouraged to attend. The discharge/aftercare plan must be approved by a 
qualified child psychiatrist and shall be reviewed with the patient, patient's family 
and/or significant others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.47.6 The facility shall have documentation that the aftercare plan has been 
implemented and shall have documentation of follow-ups to assure referrals to 
appropriate community agencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13   
Subchapter 48 DISCHARGE SUMMARY 
Rule 51.48.1 A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's record within fourteen (14) 
days following discharge. The discharge summary shall include but not be limited 
to: 
1. Reason for admission; 
2. Brief summary of treatment; 
3. Reason for discharge; 
<<<PAGE 978>>>
 
978 
  
4. Assessment of treatment plan goals and objectives; and 
5. Recommendations and arrangements for further treatment, including prescribed 
medications and aftercare.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 49    SUPPORT SERVICES:  PHARMACY  
Rule 51.49.1 Direction and Supervision.  A Facility must provide pharmaceutical services 
(including procedures that assure the accurate acquiring, receiving, dispensing, 
and administering of all drugs and biological) to meet the needs of each patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.49.2 The facility must provide routine and emergency drugs and biological to its 
residents, or obtain them under an agreement part. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.49.3 The facility must employ or obtain the services of a licensed pharmacist who: 
1. Provides consultation on all aspects of the provision of pharmacy services in the 
facility; 
2. Establishes a system of records of receipt and disposition of all controlled drugs in 
sufficient detail to enable an accurate reconciliation; 
3. Determines that drug records are in order and that an account of all controlled drugs 
is maintained and periodically reconciled; and 
4. The pharmacist must submit a written report at least monthly to the CEO of the 
status of the performance of nursing personnel and any discrepancies noted in 
record keeping. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 50   CONTROL OF TOXIC OR DANGEROUS DRUGS  
Rule 51.50.1 Policies shall be established to control the administration of toxic or dangerous 
drugs with specific reference to the duration of the order and the dosage. The 
facility shall establish a written policy that all toxic or dangerous medications, not 
specifically prescribed as to time or number of doses, shall be automatically 
stopped after a reasonable time limit. The classification ordinarily thought of a 
toxic, dangerous or abuse drugs shall be narcotics, sedatives, anti-coagulants, 
antibiotics, oxytocics and cortisone products, and shall include other categories so 
established by federal, state or local laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 979>>>
 
979 
  
Subchapter 51   LABELING  
Rule 51.51.1 The facility must label drugs and biological in accordance with currently accepted 
professional principles, and include the appropriate accessory and cautionary 
instructions, and the expiration date. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.2 The facility shall have written policies and procedures designed to ensure that all 
medications are dispensed and administered safely and properly in accordance 
with the applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.3 An up-to-date list of authorized prescribers shall be available in all areas where 
medication is dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.4 Telephone orders shall be accepted only from individuals on the list of authorized 
prescribers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.5 Telephone orders shall be limited to situations that have been defined in writing in 
the facility's policies and procedures manual. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.6 Telephone orders shall be accepted and written in the patient's record only by staff 
authorized to administer medication. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.7 Telephone orders shall be signed by an authorized prescriber on the next regular 
working day, but in all events within 72 hours. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.8 A written order signed by the authorized prescriber shall be included in patient's 
record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.9 Medication orders that contain abbreviations and chemical symbols shall be 
carried out only if the abbreviations and symbols are on a standard list approved 
by the physician members of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 980>>>
 
980 
  
Rule 51.51.10 There shall be automatic stop orders on specified medications. Refer to 301.5. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.11 There shall be a specific routine of drug administration, indicating dose schedules 
and standardization of abbreviations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.12 Only pharmacists, physicians, psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners, 
registered nurses, or licensed practical nurses shall administer medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.13 Self administration of medication shall be permitted only when specifically 
ordered by the responsible physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.14 Drugs brought into the facility by patients shall not be administered unless they 
can be absolutely identified, and unless written orders to administer these specific 
drugs are given by the responsible physician. If the drugs that the patient brings to 
the facility are not to be used, they shall be packaged, sealed, and stored, and, if 
approved by the responsible physician, they shall be returned to the patient, 
family, or significant others at the time of discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.15 The patient and, when appropriate, the family shall be instructed about which 
medications, if any, are to be administered at home. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.16 Medications administered, medication errors and adverse drug reactions shall be 
documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.17 Facilities should implement a reporting system under which the reporting program 
of the federal Food and Drug Administration and the drug manufacturer are 
advised of unexpected adverse drug reactions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.51.18 There shall be methods of detecting drug side effects or toxic reactions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 981>>>
 
981 
  
Rule 51.51.19 Investigational drugs shall be used only under the direct supervision of the 
principal investigator and with the approval of research review committee and 
either the physician members of the professional staff or an appropriate 
committee of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 52   SPACE FOR STORAGE OF DRUGS  
Rule 51.52.1 Adequate space shall be provided in the on premises Pharmacy for storage of 
drugs and for keeping of necessary records. The pharmacy shall be capable of 
being securely locked in accordance with regulations regarding storage of 
dangerous drugs. Adequate space is defined on a minimum of 350 square feet for 
50 beds or less; 500 sq. ft. for 75 beds or less; 750 sq. ft. for 100 beds or less, and 
1000 sq. ft. for 100 beds or more. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.2 If there is no full-time pharmacists employed by the facility and if medications 
administered to patients are dispensed by pharmacist(s) elsewhere...then only the 
storage of pre-dispensed, individual medications (either medication containers or 
unit-dose medications) shall be allowed in the facility. The exception is for the 
allowance of Emergency Medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.3 Storage of Medications, as outlined directly above, in the facility shall be in an 
area to measure not less than 100 square feet of space. This storage area is to be 
designated as the Medication Preparation Area/Room, and is to have the 
following personality: 
1. Medication Refrigerator (for storage of drugs and biological); 
2. Hand washing lavatory with hot water capability, and paper towel dispenser; 
3. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have self-closing self-locking door(s); 
4. The air temperature in the Medication Preparation Area/Room is not to exceed 85 
degrees Fahrenheit or fall below 50 degrees Fahrenheit; 
5. Medication Preparation Area/Room to have counter-top space provided for 
medication preparation; and 
6. The facility must provide separately locked, permanently affixed compartments 
for storage of controlled drugs listed in Schedule II of the Comprehensive Drug 
Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 and other drugs subject to abuse, 
except when the facility uses single unit package drug distribution systems in 
which the quantity stored is minimal and a missing dose can be readily detected. 
<<<PAGE 982>>>
 
982 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.4 All medication orders shall be reviewed monthly by the responsible physician. 
Adverse drug reactions and medication errors shall be reported to the physician 
responsible for the patient, and shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.5 The pharmacist in charge of dispensing medications shall provide for monthly 
inspection of all storage units including emergency boxes and emergency carts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.6 A record of these inspections shall be maintained in order to verify the following: 
1. Disinfectants and drugs for external use are stored separately from internal and 
injectable medications. 
2. Drugs requiring special conditions for storage to ensure stability are properly 
stored. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.7 Adequate precautions shall be taken to store medications under proper conditions 
of sanitation, temperature, light, moisture, ventilation, segregation, and security. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.8 All drugs shall be kept in locked storage. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.9 A central unit shall be established where essential information on investigational 
drugs, such as dosage form, dosage range, storage requirements, adverse 
reactions, usage, and contraindications, is maintained. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.10 Investigational drugs shall be properly labeled. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.11 Nurses may administer investigational drugs only after receiving basic 
pharmacologic information about the drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.12 The facility shall have specific methods for controlling and accounting for drug 
products. 
<<<PAGE 983>>>
 
983 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.13 The pharmacy service shall maintain records of its transactions as required by law 
and as necessary to maintain adequate control of, and accountability for, all drugs.  
These records shall document all supplies issued to units, departments, or services 
of the facility, as well as prescription drugs dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.14 Records and inventories of the drugs listed in the current Comprehensive Drug 
Abuse Prevention and Control Act shall be maintained as required by the act and 
regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.15 Distribution and administration of controlled drugs are adequately documented, 
and inspection of these records by the pharmacist is documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.16 There is an emergency kit that is: 
1. Made up under the supervision of responsibility of the pharmacist, and approved by 
the Clinical Director; 
2. Readily available to staff yet not accessible to patients; 
3. Constituted so as to be appropriate to the needs of the patients; and 
4. Inspected monthly to remove deteriorated and outdated drugs and to ensure 
completeness of content. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.17 The pharmacist responsible for the emergency kit shall provide a list of its 
contents and appropriate instructions, and shall authenticate this list with his 
signature. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.18 Poisons, external drugs, and internal drugs shall be stored on separate shelves or 
in separate cabinets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.19 Medications that are stored in a refrigerator containing items other than drugs 
shall be kept in a separate compartment or container with proper security. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 984>>>
 
984 
  
Rule 51.52.20 Antidote charts and the telephone number of the Regional Poison Control Center 
shall be kept in all drug storage and preparation areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.21 Up-to-date pharmaceutical reference material shall be provided so that 
appropriate staff will have adequate information concerning drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.52.22 Current editions of text and reference books covering the following topics shall be 
provided; theoretical and practical pharmacy; general, organic, pharmaceutical, 
and biological chemistry; toxicology; pharmacology; bacteriology; sterilization 
and disinfection; and other subjects important to good patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 53   DIETARY ORGANIZATION 
Rule 51.53.1 The facility shall have an organized dietary department directed by a qualified 
food service supervisor, with services of a registered dietitian on at least a 
consultant basis. However, a facility which has a contract with an outside food 
management company may be found to meet this requirement if the company has 
a therapeutic dietitian who serves, as required by scope and complexity of the 
services, on a full-time, part-time, or consultant basis to the facility. If the 
dietitian is not employed full-time, a certified food service supervisor should 
direct the dietary department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.2 The qualified dietitian shall be registered or eligible for registration by the 
Commission on Dietetic Registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.3 When a qualified dietitian is employed on a part-time or consultative basis, the 
dietitian shall devote enough time to accomplish the following tasks: 
1. Assure continuity of services; 
2. Direct the nutritional aspects of patient care; 
3. Assure that dietetic instructions are carried out; and 
4. On occasion, supervise the serving of meals; and assist in the evaluation of the 
dietetic services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 985>>>
 
985 
  
Rule 51.53.4 Regular written reports shall be submitted to the chief executive officer on the 
extent of services provided by the dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.5 There shall be written policies and procedures for food storage, preparation, and 
service developed by a registered dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.6 The dietetic service shall have an adequate number of appropriately qualified 
individuals to meet the dietetic needs of the facility's patients. Dietetic service 
personnel shall assist patients when necessary in making appropriate food choices 
from the planned daily menu. Dietetic services personnel shall be made aware that 
emotional factors may cause patients to change their food habits. Dietetic service 
personnel shall inform appropriate members of the professional staff of any 
change in a patient's food habits. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.7 Written job descriptions of all dietary employees shall be available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.8 There shall be procedures to control dietary employees with infectious and open 
lesions. Routine health examinations shall meet local and state codes for food 
service personnel. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.53.9 There shall be an on-going planned in-service training program for dietary employees 
which includes the proper handling of food and personal grooming, safety, sanitation, 
behavioral and therapeutic needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 54   FACILITIES  
Rule 51.54.1 Adequate space, equipment, ventilation and supplies as well as any necessary 
written procedure and precautions, shall be provided for the safe and sanitary 
operation of the dietetic service and the safe and sanitary handling and 
distribution of food. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.2 The food service area should be appropriately located. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 986>>>
 
986 
  
Rule 51.54.3 The dietitian's office should be easily accessible to all who require consultation 
services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.4 Sufficient space shall be provided for support personnel to perform their duties. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.5 The layout of the department and the type, amount, size, and placement of 
equipment shall make possible the efficient and sanitary preparation and 
distribution of food. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.6 Lavatories with wrist action blades, soap dispenser and disposable towel 
dispenser shall be located throughout the dietary department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.7 Dry or staple food items shall be stored in a ventilation room which is not subject 
to sewage or waste water backflow, or contamination by condensation, leakage, 
rodents or vermin. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.8 All perishable foods shall be refrigerated at the appropriate temperature and in an 
orderly and sanitary manner. Each refrigerator shall contain a thermometer in 
good working order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.9 Foods being displayed or transported shall be protected from contamination. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.10 Dishwashing procedures and techniques shall be developed and carried out in 
compliance with the state and local health codes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.11 All garbage and kitchen refuse which is not disposed of mechanically shall be 
kept in leak-proof non-absorbent containers with close fitting covers and be 
disposed of routinely in a manner that will not permit transmission of disease, a 
nuisance, or a breeding place for flies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 987>>>
 
987 
  
Rule 51.54.12 All garbage containers are to be thoroughly cleaned inside and outside each time 
emptied. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.54.13 All dietary areas, equipment, walls, floors, etc., shall be kept maintained in good 
working condition and sanitary at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 55 DIETS  
Rule 51.55.1 There shall be a systematic record of diets, correlated when appropriate, with the 
medical records. The dietitian shall have available an up-to-date manual of 
regimens for all therapeutic diets, approved jointly by the dietitian and medical 
staff, which is available to dietary supervisory personnel. Diets served to patients 
shall be in compliance with these established diet principles: 
1. The diet manual shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by a qualified 
dietitian, and shall be dated to identify the time of the review; 
2. Revisions to the diet manual shall be approved by the facility's physician; 
3. The diet manual should be used to standardize the ordering of diets; 
4. The policies and procedures shall provide for dietetic counseling; 
5. The nutritional deficiencies of any diet in the manual shall be indicated; 
6. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of dietetic orders in the 
patient's record; 
7. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of all observations and 
information pertinent to dietetic treatment in the patient's record by the food 
service supervisor or dietitian; 
8. The policies and procedures shall require the use of standards for nutritional care in 
evaluating the nutritional adequacy of the patient's diet and in ordering diet 
supplements. The current Recommended Dietary Allowances of the Food and 
Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the National Academy of 
Sciences is suggested as a guide in developing these standards; 
9. The policies and procedures shall describe the methods for assuring that each 
patient on a special diet received the prescribed diet regimen; 
10. The policies and procedures shall provide for altering diets or diet schedules as 
well as for discontinuing diets; 
<<<PAGE 988>>>
 
988 
  
11. Dietetic service personnel shall conduct periodic food acceptance studies among 
the patients and should encourage them to participate in menu planning; 
12. The results of food acceptance studies should be reflected in revised menus; and 
13. All menus shall be approved by a qualified dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 56   FOOD SERVICE AND DINING 
Rule 51.56.1 Food shall be served in an appetizing and attractive manner, at planned and 
realistic mealtimes, and in a congenial and relaxed atmosphere. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.2 Dining areas should be attractive and maintained at appropriate temperatures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.3 The dietetic services shall be patient-oriented and should take into account the 
many factors that contribute to the wide variations in patient eating habits, 
including cultural, religious, and ethnic factors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.4 Snacks shall be available as appropriate to the nutritional needs of the patient and 
the needs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.5 The dietetic service shall be prepared to give extra food to individual patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.6 Appropriate food should be available for patients with special or limited dietary 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.7 There shall be adequate equipment provided for tray assembly and tray delivery. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.56.8 Facilities or arrangements shall be available for family and friends to eat with 
patients when possible. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 989>>>
 
989 
  
Subchapter 57   RECREATION  
Rule 51.57.1 The facility shall provide or make arrangements for the provision of recreation 
services to all patients in accordance with their needs and interests and as 
appropriate within the scope of the facility's program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.2 The facility shall have a written plan that describes the organization of their 
recreation services or the arrangements made for the provision of recreation 
services. The recreation services shall have a well-organized plan for using 
community resources. The goals and objectives of the facility's recreation services 
shall be stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures for the recreation services 
which are made available to recreation services and other appropriate personnel. 
The policies and procedures shall be reviewed and revised at least annually. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.4 Recreational activities shall be provided to all patients during the day, in the 
evening, and on weekends. The daily recreation program shall be planned to 
provide a consistent and well-structured yet flexible framework for daily living. 
Whenever possible, patients should participate in planning recreational services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.5 Recreation schedules shall be posted in places accessible to patients and staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.6 The recreation program shall be reviewed and revised according to the changing 
needs of the patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.7 When indicated, recreation services shall be incorporated in the patient's treatment 
plan. Recreation services that are included in a patient's treatment plan shall 
reflect an assessment of the patient's needs, interests, life experiences, capacities, 
and deficiencies. Recreation services staff shall collaborate with other 
professional staff in delineating goals for patient's treatment, health maintenance, 
and vocational adjustments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 990>>>
 
990 
  
Rule 51.57.8 The patient's record shall contain progress notes that describe the patient's 
response to recreation services and other pertinent observations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.9 There shall be documentation that patients are given leisure time and that they are 
encouraged to use their leisure time in a way that fulfills their cultural and 
receational interests and their feelings of human dignity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.57.10 Vehicles used for transportation shall not be labeled in a manner that calls 
unnecessary attention to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 58 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES  
Rule 51.58.1 The recreation services shall have written procedures for ongoing review and 
revision of its goals, objectives, and role within the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.58.2 The recreation service shall maintain statistical and other records on the 
functioning and utilization of the services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 59 CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Rule 51.59.1 The facility service shall maintain ongoing staff development programs. 
Recreation service staff shall participate in appropriate clinical and administrative 
committees and conferences. Recreation services staff shall receive training and 
demonstrate competence in handling medical and psychiatric emergencies. The 
recreation service shall encourage extramural studies and evaluations of 
recreation services and extramural research in recreation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 60 FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND SANITATION  
Rule 51.60.1 Appropriate space, equipment, and facilities shall be provided to meet the needs 
of patients for recreation services: 
1. Facilities and equipment designated for recreation services shall be constructed or 
modified in such a manner as to provide, insofar as possible, pleasant and 
functional areas that are accessible to all patients regardless of their disabilities; 
2. Space for offices, storages, and supplies shall be adequate and accessible; 
<<<PAGE 991>>>
 
991 
  
3. When indicated, equipment and supplies that enable the activity to be brought to 
the patient should be used; and 
4. Space, equipment and facilities utilized both inside and outside the facility shall 
meet federal, state, and local requirements for safety, fire prevention, health, and 
sanitation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 61 PHYSICAL AND OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY  
Rule 51.61.1 The facility shall provide, or arrange for, under written agreement, physical and 
occupational therapy services as needed by patients to improve and maintain 
functioning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.2 Qualified therapists, consultants, volunteers, assistants, or aides, are sufficient in 
number to provide comprehensive occupation and physical therapy services, as 
needed, to assure that appropriate treatment is rendered for each patient in 
accordance with stated goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.3 Services are provided only upon the written order of a licensed physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.4 The therapist must: 
1. Record regularly and evaluate periodically the treatment training progress; and 
2. Use the treatment training progress as the basis for continuation or change in the 
program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.5 Treatment training programs shall be designed to: 
1. Preserve and improve abilities for independent function, such as range of motion, 
strength, tolerance, coordination, and activities of daily living; and 
2. Prevent, insofar as possible, irreducible disabilities through means such as the use 
of orthotic and prosthetic appliances, assistive and adaptive devices, positioning, 
behavior adoptions, and sensory stimulation.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 992>>>
 
992 
  
Rule 51.61.6 Evaluation results, treatment objectives, plans and procedures and progress notes 
shall be recorded in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.7 For effective and efficient physical and occupational therapy services, the facility 
shall provide sufficient space, equipment and supplies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.8 Physical and occupational therapists shall meet the qualifications of Rule 51.25.1.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.61.9 Therapy assistants must work under the supervision of the qualified therapist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 62 EDUCATION  
Rule 51.62.1 The facility shall provide, or make arrangements for the provision of, education 
services to meet the needs of all patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.2 Special education services shall be provided for patients whose emotional 
disturbances make it difficult for them to learn. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.3 Education services shall provide opportunities for patients who have fallen behind 
because of their disorder, to correct deficiencies in their education. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.4 Facilities that operate their own education service shall have adequate staff and 
space to meet the educational needs of patients. These facilities shall adhere to all 
regulations and standards of the State Department of Education that would assure 
receipt of approval for all work successfully completed within each individual's 
education plan and transferable to other educational providers, e.g. local public 
school districts in the State, following the patient's discharge. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.5 An education director and staff who meet state and/or local certification 
requirements for education and/or special education shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 993>>>
 
993 
  
Rule 51.62.6 Special education teachers shall be certified for individuals with emotional 
disabilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.7 An appropriate ratio of teachers to students shall be provided so teachers can give 
special attention to students or to groups of students who are at different stages of 
treatment and education. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.8 The education service shall have space and materials commensurate with the 
scope of its activities, including an adequate number of classrooms. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.9 When indicated, patients shall participate in education programs in the 
community. Teachers in the community shall be given the information necessary 
to work effectively with the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.10 Clinicians shall periodically confer with teachers or principals on the progress of 
each patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.11 When appropriate, patients shall be encouraged to take part in extracurricular 
school activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.62.12 There shall be documentation in each patient's record of periodic evaluations of 
educational achievement in relation to developmental level, chronological age, 
sex, special handicaps, medications, and psychotherapeutic needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 63 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION  
Rule 51.63.1 Policies and Procedures:  When appropriate, patients shall receive counseling on 
their specific vocational needs, for example, vocational strengths and weaknesses, 
the demands of their current or future job, the responsibilities of holding a job, 
and the problems related to vocational training, placement, and employment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.2 A facility may delegate vocational rehabilitation responsibilities to an outside 
vocational rehabilitation agency. However, the agency must assign an individual 
<<<PAGE 994>>>
 
994 
  
approved by the facility to serve as the facility's coordinator of vocational 
rehabilitation and agree to comply with the standards in this section.  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.3 Facilities that have a vocational rehabilitation service shall have written policies 
and procedures to govern the operation of the service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.4 The vocational rehabilitation service shall assess the patient’s vocational needs 
with regard to the following: 
1. Current work skills and potential for improving skills or developing new ones; 
2. Educational background; 
3. Aptitudes, interests, and motivations for getting involved in various job-related 
activities; 
4. Physical abilities; 
5. Skills and experiences in seeking jobs; 
6. Work habits related to tardiness, absenteeism, dependability, honesty, and relations 
with co-workers and their supervisor; 
7. Personal grooming and appearance; 
8. Expectations regarding the personal, financial, and social benefits to be derived 
from working; and 
9. Amenability to vocational counseling. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.5 Vocational services shall be provided according to an individualized treatment 
plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.6 The criteria for determining a patient's job readiness shall be stated in the patient's 
treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.7 A record shall be kept of vocational rehabilitation activities, including the date 
and a description of the activity, participants, and results. 
<<<PAGE 995>>>
 
995 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.63.8 All work programs must conform to federal, state, and local rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 64 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION  
Rule 51.64.1 The facility's vocational rehabilitation service shall have a sufficient number of 
appropriately qualified staff and support personnel thru direct or contractual 
services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.64.2 A person or team shall be assigned responsibility for the implementation of 
vocational rehabilitation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.64.3 Vocational Rehabilitative Services shall be provided by at least one qualified 
vocational rehabilitation counselor or qualified occupational therapist available 
who is responsible for the professional standards, coordination, and delivery of 
vocational rehabilitation services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.64.4 All personnel providing vocational rehabilitation services shall have training, 
experience, and competence consistent with acceptable standards of their 
specialty field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.64.5 Sufficient qualified vocational rehabilitation counselors and support personnel 
shall be available to meet the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 65 SPEECH, LANGUAGE, AND HEARING  
Rule 51.65.1 Policies and Procedures:  Speech, language, and hearing services shall be 
available, either within the facility or by written arrangement with another facility 
or a qualified clinician, to provide assessments of speech, language, or hearing 
when indicated, and to provide counseling, treatment, and rehabilitation when 
needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.65.2 Facilities that have a speech, language, and hearing service shall have written 
policies and procedures to govern the operation of the service. 
<<<PAGE 996>>>
 
996 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.65.3 The speech, language, and hearing service shall provide the following services: 
1. Speech and language screening of patients when deemed necessary by members of 
the treatment team, the family, or significant others; 
2. Comprehensive speech and language evaluation of patients when indicated by 
screening results; 
3. Comprehensive audiological assessment of patients when indicated; 
4. Procurement, maintenance, or replacement of hearing aids when specified by a 
qualified audiologist; and 
5. Rehabilitation programs, when appropriate, to establish the speech skills necessary 
for comprehension and expression. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.65.4 Assessment and treatment results shall be reported accurately and systematically 
and in a manner that accomplishes the following: 
1. Defines the problem; 
2. Provides a basis for formulating a plan that contains treatment objectives and 
procedures; 
3. Provides information of staff working with the patient; and 
4. Provides evaluations and summary reports for inclusion in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 66 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION  
Rule 51.66.1 The speech, language, and hearing service shall be administered and supervised 
by qualified speech-language and hearing clinicians. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.66.2 All staff with independent responsibilities shall have a Certificate of Clinical 
Competence or a Statement of Equivalence in either speech pathology or 
audiology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association, or have 
documented equivalent training and experience; and shall meet current legal 
requirements of licensure or registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 997>>>
 
997 
  
Rule 51.66.3 Support personnel, such as speech pathology assistants and communication aides, 
shall be qualified by training and/or experience for level of work they perform 
and shall be appropriately supervised by a staff speech-language pathologist or 
audiologist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 67 QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES  
Rule 51.67.1 Equipment shall meet the standards of the American Board of Examiners in 
Speech Pathology and Audiology of the American Speech-Language-Hearing 
Association, including the standards concerning the location, calibration, and 
maintenance of equipment; or equipment shall meet equivalent standards. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 68 DENTAL  
Rule 51.68.1 Policies and Procedures:  The facility shall have a written plan that outlines the 
procedures used to assess and treat the dental health care needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.68.2 The written dental health care plan shall describe the following: 
1. Mechanisms for evaluating each patient's need for dental treatment; 
2. Provisions for emergency dental services; 
3. Policies on oral hygiene and preventive dentistry; 
4. Provisions for coordinating dental services with other services provided by the 
facility; and 
5. A mechanism for the referral of patients for services not provided by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.68.3 When a facility provides dental services, a written policy shall delineate the 
functions of the service and the specific services provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.68.4 Reports of all dental services provided shall be made a part of the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 69 STAFF COMPOSITION AND SUPERVISION  
<<<PAGE 998>>>
 
998 
  
Rule 51.69.1 A dental service provided by the facility shall be directed by a fully licensed 
dentist who is a member of the professional staff and qualified to assume 
management and administrative responsibility for the dental service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.69.2 A dental service provided by the facility shall have a sufficient number of 
adequately trained personnel to meet the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 70 FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND SANITATION  
Rule 51.70.1 A dental service provided by the facility shall have adequate space, equipment, 
instruments, and supplies to meet the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 71 REFERRALS  
Rule 51.71.1 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that facilitate the referral of 
patients and the provision of consultation between the facility's program 
components and between the facility and other service providers in the 
community. The written policies and procedures shall describe the conditions 
under which referrals can be made and consultations provided. These conditions 
shall provide for the examinations, assessments, or consultations that are not 
within the professional domain or expertise of the staff; special treatment 
services; and assistance from providers who can contribute to the patient's well-
being. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.2 The written policies and procedures shall describe the methods by which 
continuity of care is assured for the patient. These methods shall include, but not 
be limited to, providing the facility, program component, or other service provider 
to which the patient is referred with the following: 
1. Background information on the referral; 
2. Information on the patient's treatment, for example, current treatment, diagnostic 
assessments, and special requirements; 
3. Treatment objectives desired; 
4. Suggestions for continued coordination between the referring and the receiving 
resource; 
5. Special clinical management requirements; and 
<<<PAGE 999>>>
 
999 
  
6. Information on how the patient can be returned to the referring facility or program 
component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.3 The facility shall ask the facility, program component, or other service provider to 
which the patient is referred to submit a follow-up report within a designated time 
period. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.4 The written policies and procedures shall describe the mechanism by which a 
patient may request a referral. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.5 The written policies and procedures shall describe the means by which the facility 
assists in the referral of individuals who are seeking services that the facility does 
not provide. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.6 The written policies and procedures shall be reviewed and approved annually by 
the director and appropriate administrative and professional staff members. The 
annual review and approval shall be documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.7 Each community service provider to which patients are referred shall express in 
writing its willingness to abide by federal and state standards concerning 
confidentiality of patient information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.71.8 The facility shall have a letter of agreement and/or contract with community 
service providers that it uses repeatedly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 72 EMERGENCY 
Rule 51.72.1 The facility shall have written procedures for taking care of emergencies. 
Emergency services shall be provided by the facility or through clearly defined 
arrangements with another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.72.2 When emergency services are provided by an outside facility, a written plan shall 
delineate the type of emergency services available and the arrangements for 
<<<PAGE 1000>>>
 
1000 
  
referring or transferring patients to another facility. The written plan shall be 
available to all professional staff and shall clearly specify the following: 
1. The staff of the facility who are available and authorized to provide necessary 
emergency evaluations; 
2. The staff of the facility who are authorized to arrange for patients to be referred or 
transferred to another facility when necessary; 
3. The arrangements the facility had made for exchanging records with the outside 
facility when it is necessary for the care of the patient; 
4. The location of the outside facility and the names of the appropriate personnel to 
contact; 
5. The method of communication between the two facilities; 
6. The arrangements the facility has made to assure that when a patient requiring 
emergency care is transferred to a non-psychiatric or substance abuse service or 
facility, he or she will receive further evaluation and/or treatment of his or her 
psychiatric or substance abuse problem, as needed; 
7. The arrangements the facility has made for transporting patients, when necessary, 
from the facility to the facility providing emergency services; 
8. The policy for referring patients needing continued care after emergency services 
back to the referring facility; and 
9. Policies concerning notification of patient's family of emergencies and of 
arrangements that have been made for referring or transferring the patient to 
another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 73 LIBRARY  
Rule 51.73.1 Library services shall be made available to meet the professional and technical 
needs of the facility's staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.73.2 Facilities that do not maintain a professional library shall have an arrangement 
with a nearby facility or institution to use its professional library. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.73.3 Current reference material, books, and basic health care journals shall be available 
in each facility. 
<<<PAGE 1001>>>
 
1001 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.73.4 The library shall establish regular and convenient hours of service so that staff 
may have prompt access to current materials. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.73.5 When a facility operates its own library, the professional library service shall 
provide pertinent, current and useful medical, psychiatric, psychological, alcohol, 
drug, educational, and related materials. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.73.6 A facility providing extensive library services should utilize the services of a 
professional librarian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 74 LABORATORY/RADIOLOGY 
Rule 51.74.1 The facility shall have provisions for promptly obtaining required laboratory, x-
ray, and other diagnostic services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.74.2 If the facility provides its own laboratory and x-ray services, these shall meet the 
applicable standards established for hospital licensure. Refer to Subchapter 21 & 
Subchapter 22; and Subchapters 57-61; and Subchapters 70-73 of the Minimum 
Standards of Operation for Mississippi Hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.74.3 If the facility itself does not provide such services, arrangements shall be made for 
obtaining these services from a licensed and certified laboratory. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.74.4 All laboratory and x-ray services shall be provided only on the orders of the 
attending physician or the psychiatric mental health nurse practitioners. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.74.5 The facility shall assist the patient, if necessary, in arranging for transportation to 
and from the source of service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.74.6 All signed and dated reports of laboratory, x-ray, and other diagnostic services 
shall be filed with the patient's medical record. 
<<<PAGE 1002>>>
 
1002 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 75 VOLUNTEER  
Rule 51.75.1 In facilities where volunteer services are utilized, the objectives and scope of the 
volunteer service shall be clearly stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.2 An appropriately qualified and experienced staff member shall be assigned to 
select and evaluate volunteers and to coordinate volunteer activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.3 The authority and responsibilities of the volunteer coordinator shall be clearly 
stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.4 The volunteer coordinator shall perform the following functions: 
1. Assist staff in determining the need for volunteer services and in developing 
assignments; 
2. Plan and implement the program for recruiting volunteers; 
3. Coordinate efforts to recruit, select, and train volunteers, and to place volunteers in 
appropriate services or units; 
4. Instruct staff on the proper, effective, and creative use of volunteers; 
5. Keep staff and the community informed about volunteer services and activities; 
6. Provide opportunities for volunteers to acquire the qualifications for certification 
when applicable; and 
7. Assign an appropriate staff member to provide ongoing supervision, in-service 
training, and evaluation of volunteers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.5 An orientation program shall be conducted to familiarize volunteers with the 
facility's goals and services and to provide appropriate clinical orientation 
regarding the facility's patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.6 The orientation program shall include explanations of at least the following: 
<<<PAGE 1003>>>
 
1003 
  
1. The importance of maintaining confidentiality and protecting patients' rights; 
2. The procedures for responding to unusual events and incidents; and 
3. The program's channels of communication and the distinctions between 
administrative and clinical authority and responsibility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.7 Volunteers shall be under the direct supervision of the staff of the service or unit 
utilizing their services, and shall receive general direction and guidance form the 
volunteer coordinator. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.8 The use of volunteers as members of treatment teams to supplement the total 
treatment program shall be done only in collaboration with appropriate 
professional staff members and after consideration of the patients' needs for 
continuity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.9 Supervisory professional staff shall be available to help volunteers establish the 
most effective relationship with patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.10 Procedures shall be established to assure that the observations of volunteers are 
reported to the professional staff members responsible for the patient. These 
observations may be recorded in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.11 Volunteers may be utilized to help meet patients' basic needs for social 
interaction, self-esteem, and self-fulfillment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.12 Volunteer activity records and reports shall contain information that can be used 
to evaluate the effectiveness of the volunteer services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.75.13 At least the following records shall be maintained by the volunteer service: 
1. A personnel record that includes the volunteer's application, record of assignments, 
and progress reports; 
<<<PAGE 1004>>>
 
1004 
  
2. A master assignment schedule for all volunteers, including times and units of 
assignment; and  
3. A current job description for each volunteer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 76 RESEARCH (OPTIONAL) 
Rule 51.76.1 When a facility or program conducts or participates in research with human 
subjects, policies shall be designed and written to assure that rigorous review is 
made of the merits of each research project and of the potential effects of the 
research procedures on the participants. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.2 An interdisciplinary research review committee shall review all research projects 
utilizing human subjects. The committee shall be either a permanent standing 
committee or a committee convened on an as-needed basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.3 Members of the research review committee shall be qualified by training and 
experience to serve on the committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.4 Individuals who have appropriate experience in the research areas being reviewed 
shall be included on the committee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.5 A majority of the committee members should be individuals who are not directly 
associated with the research project under consideration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.6 Some committee members should be individuals who are not formally associated 
with the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.7 Prior to the authorization and initiation of each research project, the research 
committee shall conduct a detailed review of the project 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.8 This review shall include the following: 
<<<PAGE 1005>>>
 
1005 
  
1. The adequacy of the research design; 
2. The qualifications of the individuals responsible for coordinating the project; 
3. The benefits of the research in general; 
4. The benefits and risks to the participants; 
5. The benefits to the facility; 
6. The compliance of the research design with accepted ethical standards; 
7. The process to be used to obtain informed consent from participants; and 
8. The procedures for dealing with any potentially harmful effects that may occur in 
the course of the research activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.9 This initial review shall form the basis for a written report that shall be submitted 
by the committee to the chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.10 All individuals asked to participate in a research project shall be given the 
following information before being asked to give their consent: 
1. A description of the benefits to be expected; 
2. A description of the potential discomforts and risks; 
3. A description of alternative services that might prove equally advantageous to 
them; and 
4. A full explanation of the procedures to be followed, especially those that are 
experimental in nature. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.11 If the investigator does not wish to fully disclose the purpose, nature, expected 
outcome, and implications of the research to the participants before it begins, the 
investigator shall clearly and rigorously justify to the research review committee 
that such disclosure is inadvisable and that failure to give full disclosure is not 
detrimental to the participants. Under such conditions, disclosure may be deferred 
until the research project is completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1006>>>
 
1006 
  
Rule 51.76.12 All research project participants shall sign a consent form that indicates their 
willingness to participate in the project. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.13 All consent forms, except as provided in Rule 51.76.11 shall address all of the 
information specified in Rule 51.76.10 and shall indicate the name of the person 
who supplied the participant with the information and the date the form was 
signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.14 The informed consent document shall address the participant's right to privacy 
and confidentiality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.15 Neither the consent form nor any written or oral agreement entered into by the 
participant shall include any language that releases the facility, its agents, or those 
responsible for conducting the research from liability for negligence. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.16 All prospective participants over the age of 12 and all parents or guardians of 
participants under the age of 18 shall sign a written consent form that indicates 
willingness to participate in the project. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.17 The consent form shall address all of the information specified in Rule 51.76.10 
and shall indicate the name of the individual who supplied the participant with the 
information and the date the consent form was signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.18 Prospective participants under the age of 18, and all prospective participants who 
are legally or functionally incompetent to provide informed consent, shall 
participate only when and if consent has been given by a person legally 
empowered to consent, and such consent has been reviewed by an independent 
advocacy group, if available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.19 Such legal guardian and/or advocate shall receive the same information as 
required in Standard 174.10 and shall sign the consent form. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1007>>>
 
1007 
  
Rule 51.76.20 A patient's refusal to participate in a research project shall not be a cause for 
denying or altering the provision of indicated services to that patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.21 Participants shall be allowed to withdraw consent and discontinue participation in 
a research project at any time without affecting their status in the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.22 Privacy and confidentiality should be strictly maintained at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.23 Upon completion of the research procedures, the principal investigator shall 
attempt to remove any confusion, misinformation, stress, physical discomfort, or 
other harmful consequences that may have arisen with respect to the participants 
as a result of the procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.24 Investigators and others directly involved in research shall, both in obtaining 
consent and in conducting research, adhere to the ethical standards of their 
respective professions concerning the conduct of research and should be guided 
by the regulations of the US Department of Health and Human Services and other 
federal, state, and local statues and regulations concerning the protection of 
human subjects. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.25 Upon completion of the research, the principle investigator, whether a member of 
the facility's staff or an outside researcher, shall be responsible for communicating 
the purpose, nature, outcome, and possible practical or theoretical implications of 
the research to the staff of the program in a manner which they can understand. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.76.26 Reports of all research projects shall be submitted to the chief executive officer 
and the research committee and shall be maintained by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 77 PHYSICAL PLANT MANAGEMENT:    INFECTION CONTROL  
Rule 51.77.1 Because infections, acquired in a facility or brought into a facility from the 
community, are potential hazards for all persons having contact with the facility, 
there shall be an infection control program. Effective measures shall be developed 
to prevent, identify, and control infections. 
<<<PAGE 1008>>>
 
1008 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.77.2 Written policies and procedures pertaining to the operation of the infection 
control program shall be established, reviewed at least annually, and revised as 
necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.77.3 A practical system shall be developed for reporting, evaluating, and maintaining 
records of infections among patients and personnel. This system shall include 
assignment of responsibility for the ongoing collection and analysis of data, as 
well as for the implementation of required follow-up action. Corrective action 
taken on the basis of records and reports of infections and infection potentials 
among patients and personnel shall be documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.77.4 All new employees shall be instructed in the importance of infection control and 
personal hygiene, and in their responsibility in the infection control program. 
There shall be documentation that in-service education in infection prevention and 
control is provided to employees in all services and program components. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 78   MEDICAL WASTE  
Rule 51.78.1 "Infectious medical wastes" include solid or liquid wastes which may contain 
pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity such that exposure to the waste 
by a susceptible host has been proven to result in an infectious disease. For 
purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes shall be considered to be 
infectious medical wastes: 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who have Class I and (or) II 
diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules and 
regulations governing reportable diseases, as defined by the Mississippi 
Department of Health; 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biological, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components; 
4. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts, and body fluids that are 
removed during surgery and autopsy; 
<<<PAGE 1009>>>
 
1009 
  
5. Contaminated carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals that were exposed to 
pathogens in medical research; 
6. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken 
glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious agents; 
7. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the 
Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.78.2 "Medical Waste" means all waste generated in direct patient care or in diagnostic 
or research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically repugnant if found in the 
environment." 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.78.3 All generators of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall have a medical 
waste management plan that shall include, but is not limited to, the following: 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and Medical Waste: 
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a 
manner and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, 
does not provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and 
minimizes exposure to the public. 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point of 
origin in the producing facility. 
c. Unless approved by the Mississippi Department of Health or treated and 
rendered non-infectious, infectious medical waste (except for sharps in 
approved containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing facility for more 
than seven days above a temperature of 6 C (38F). Containment of infectious 
medical waste at the producing facility is permitted at or below a temperature 
of 0 C (32F) for a period of not more than 90 days without specific approval of 
the Mississippi Department of Health. 
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separate from other wastes.  
Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious medical waste 
shall be so secured so as to discourage access by unauthorized persons and 
shall be marked with prominent warning signs on, or adjacent to, the exterior 
of entry doors, gates, or lids. Each container shall be prominently labeled with 
a sign using language to be determined by the Department and legible during 
daylight hours. 
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
<<<PAGE 1010>>>
 
1010 
  
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have a strength sufficient to 
preclude ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage. The 
bags shall be securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or 
liquid wasted during storage, handling, or transport. 
f. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall 
be of a distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infectious waste.  
Rigid containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled. 
g. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical waste 
unless the waste has been rendered non-infectious. Sharps containers shall not 
be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the institution 
itself and shall not be placed for storage or transport in a portable or mobile 
trash compactor. 
h. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable containers 
as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling, or transport in 
disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums, or portable bins. The containment 
system shall be leak-proof, have tight-fitting covers and be kept clean and in 
good repair. 
i. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be 
thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a 
method specified by the Mississippi Department of Health, unless the surfaces 
of the containers have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, 
bags, or other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in I.E. 
j. Approved methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation 
to remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures: 
i. Exposure to hot water at least 180 F for a minimum of 15 seconds. 
ii. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with or immersion in one of the 
following for a minimum of 3 minutes: 
a. Hypochlorite solution (500 ppm available chlorine); 
b. Phenolic solution (500 ppm active agent); 
c. Iodoform solution (100 ppm available iodine); and 
d. Quaternary ammonium solution (400 ppm active agent). 
2. Reusable pails, drums, or bins used for containment of infectious waste shall not be 
used for containment of waste to be disposed of as non infectious waste or for 
other purposed except after being decontaminated by procedures as described in 
part (10) of this section. 
<<<PAGE 1011>>>
 
1011 
  
a. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste. 
b. Once treated and rendered non-infectious, previously defined infectious 
medical waste will be classified as medical waste and may be land-filled in an 
approved landfill. 
3. Treatment or disposal of infectious medical waste shall be by one of the following 
methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render the non-
infectious. 
4. Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be disposable as medical 
waste. Operating procedures for steam sterilizers shall include, but not be limited 
to, the following: 
a. Adoption of standard written operating procedures for each steam sterilizer 
including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of container(s), 
closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, and maximum load 
quantity. 
b. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each complete cycle 
to ensure the attainment of a temperature of 121 C (250 F) for one-half hour or 
longer, depending on quantity and density of the load, in order to achieve 
sterilization of the entire load. Thermometers shall be checked for calibration 
at least annually. 
c. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each container that is processed 
to indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
d. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the center 
of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least monthly to 
confirm the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
e. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in (a), (b), (c) and (d) above 
for period of not less than a year. 
f. By discharge to the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the Mississippi Department of Health. 
g. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be disposed of by incineration 
or internment, unless burial at an approved landfill is specifically authorized by 
the Mississippi Department of Health. 
<<<PAGE 1012>>>
 
1012 
  
h. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized by 
the US Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and Toxic 
Substances. Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide are 
examples of sterilants that, used in accordance with manufacturer 
recommendation, will render infectious waste non-infectious. Testing with 
Bacillus subtilis spores or other equivalent organisms shall be conducted 
quarterly to ensure the sterilization effectiveness of gas or steam treatment. 
5. Treatment and disposal of medical waste which is not infectious shall be by one of 
the following methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal 
facility or part of a facility where medical waste is placed in or on land, and 
which is not a treatment facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.78.4 All the requirements of these standards shall apply, without regard to the quantity 
of medical waste generated per month, to any generator of medical waste. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 79   THERAPEUTIC ENVIRONMENT  
Rule 51.79.1 The facility shall establish an environment that enhances the positive self-image 
of patients and preserves their human dignity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.2 The grounds of the facility shall have adequate space for the facility to carry out 
its stated goals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.3 When patient needs or facility goals involve outdoor activities, areas appropriate 
to the ages and clinical needs of the patients shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.4 The facility shall be accessible to individuals with physical disabilities, or the 
facility shall have written policies and procedures that describe how individuals 
with physical disabilities can gain access to the facility for necessary services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1013>>>
 
1013 
  
Rule 51.79.5 Waiting or reception areas shall be comfortable; and their design, location, and 
furnishings shall accommodate the characteristics of patient and visitors, the 
anticipated waiting time, the need for privacy and/or support form staff, and the 
goals of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.6 Appropriate staff shall be available in waiting or reception areas to address the 
needs of patients and visitors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.7 Rest rooms shall be available for patients and visitors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.8 A telephone shall be available for private conversations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.9 An adequate number of drinking units shall be accessible at appropriate heights. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.10 If drinking units employ cups, only single-use, disposable cups shall be used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.11 Facilities that do not have emergency medical care resources shall have first-aid 
supply kits available in appropriate places. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.12 All supervisory staff shall be familiar with the locations, contents, and use of the 
first-aid kits. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.13 The facility shall provide an environment appropriate to the needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.14 The design, structure, furnishing, and lighting of the patient environment shall 
promote clear perceptions of people and functions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.15 When appropriate, lighting shall be controlled by patients. 
<<<PAGE 1014>>>
 
1014 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.16 Whenever possible the environment shall provide views of the outdoors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.17 Areas that are primarily used by patients shall have windows or skylights. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.18 Appropriate types of mirrors that distort as little as possible shall be placed at 
reasonable heights in appropriate places to aid in grooming and to enhance 
patients' self-awareness. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.19 Clocks and calendars should be provided in at least major use areas to promote 
awareness of time and season. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.20 Ventilation shall contribute to the habitability of the environment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.21 Direct outside air ventilation shall be provided to each patient's room by air 
conditioning or operable windows. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.22 Ventilation shall be sufficient to remove undesirable odors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.23 All areas and surfaces shall be free of undesirable odors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.24 Door locks and other structural restraints should be used minimally. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.25 The use of door locks or closed sections shall be approved by the professional 
staff and the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1015>>>
 
1015 
  
Rule 51.79.26 The facility shall have written policies and procedures to facilitate staff-patient 
interaction, particularly when structural barriers in the therapeutic environment 
separate staff from patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.27 Staff should respect a patient's right to privacy by knocking on the door of the 
patient's room before entering. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.28 Areas with the following characteristics shall be available to meet the needs of 
patients: 
1. Areas that accommodate a full range of social activities, from two-person 
conversations to group activities; 
2. Attractively furnished areas in which a patient can be alone, when appropriate; and 
3. Attractively furnished areas for private conversations with other occupants, family 
or friends. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.29 Appropriate furnishings and equipment shall be available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.30 Furnishings shall be clean and in good repair. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.31 Furnishings shall be appropriate to the age and physical conditions of the patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.32 All furnishings, equipment, and appliances shall be maintained in good operating 
order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.33 Broken furnishings and equipment shall be repaired promptly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.34 Dining areas shall be comfortable, attractive, and conducive to pleasant living. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1016>>>
 
1016 
  
Rule 51.79.35 Dining arrangements shall be based on a logical plan that meets the needs of the 
patients and the requirements of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.36 Dining tables should seat small groups of patients, unless other arrangements are 
justified on the basis of patient needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.37 When staff members do not eat with the patients, the dining rooms shall be 
adequately supervised and staffed to provide assistance to patients when needed 
and to assure that each patient received an adequate amount and variety of food. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.38 Sleeping areas shall have doors for privacy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.39 Patient rooms shall contain no more than four patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.40 The number of patients in a room shall be appropriate to the ages, developmental 
levels, and clinical needs of the patients and to the goals of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.41 Sleeping areas shall be assigned on the basis of individual needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.42 Areas shall be provided for personal hygiene. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.43 The areas for personal hygiene shall provide privacy. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.44 Bathrooms and toilets shall have partitions and doors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.45 Toilets shall have seats. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1017>>>
 
1017 
  
Rule 51.79.46 Good standards of personal hygiene and grooming shall be taught and maintained, 
particularly in regard to bathing, brushing teeth, caring for hair and nails, and 
using the toilet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.47 Patients shall have the personal help needed to perform these activities and, when 
indicated, to assume responsibility for self-care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.48 The services of a barber and beautician shall be available to patients either within 
the facility or in the community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.49 Articles for grooming and personal hygiene that are appropriate to the patient's 
age, developmental level, and clinical status shall be readily available in a space 
reserved near the patient's sleeping area. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.50 If clinically indicated, a patient's personal articles may be kept under lock and key 
by staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.51 Ample closet and drawer space shall be provided for storing personal property 
and property provided for patient's use. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.52 Lockable storage space should be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.53 Patients shall be allowed to keep and display personal belongings and to add 
personal touches to the decoration of their rooms. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.54 The facility should have written rules to govern the appropriateness of such 
decorative display. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.55 If access to potentially dangerous grooming aides or other personal articles is 
contraindicated for clinical reasons, the professional staff shall explain to the 
patient the conditions under which the articles may be used and shall document 
<<<PAGE 1018>>>
 
1018 
  
the clinical rationale for these conditions under which the articles may be used 
and shall document the clinical rationale for these conditions in the patient's 
record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.56 If the hanging of pictures on walls and similar activities are privileges to be 
earned for treatment purposes, the professional staff shall explain to the patient 
the conditions under which the privileges may be granted and shall document the 
treatment and granting of privileges in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.57 Patients shall be encouraged to take responsibility for maintaining their own 
living quarters and for other day-to-day housekeeping activities of the program, as 
appropriate to their clinical status. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.58 Such responsibilities shall be clearly defined in writing, and staff assistance and 
equipment shall be provided as needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.59 Descriptions of such responsibilities shall be included in the patients' orientation 
program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.60 Documentation shall be provided that these responsibilities have been 
incorporated into the patient's treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.61 Patients shall be allowed to wear their own clothing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.62 If clothing is provided by the program, it shall be appropriate and shall not be 
dehumanizing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.63 Training and help in the selection and proper care of clothing shall be available as 
appropriate. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.64 Clothing shall be suited to the climate. 
<<<PAGE 1019>>>
 
1019 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.65 Clothing shall be becoming, in good repair, of proper size, and similar to the 
clothing worn by the patient's peers in the community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.66 An adequate amount of clothing shall be available to permit laundering, cleaning, 
and repair. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.67 A laundry room should be accessible so patients may wash their clothing with 
appropriate supervision. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.68 The use and location of noise-producing equipment and appliances, such as 
television, radios, and record players, shall not interfere with other therapeutic 
activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.69 A place and equipment shall be provided for table games and individual hobbies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.70 Toys, equipment, and games shall be stored on shelves that are accessible to 
patients as appropriate. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.71 Books, magazines, and arts and crafts materials shall be available in accordance 
with patients' recreational, cultural, and educational backgrounds and needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.72 Each facility shall formulate its own policy regarding the availability and care of 
pets and other animals, consistent with the goals of the facility and with the 
requirements of good health and sanitation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.73 Depending on the size of the program, facilities shall be available for serving 
snacks and preparing meals for special occasions and recreational activities, for 
example, baking cookies or making popcorn or candy. These facilities shall 
permit patient participation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1020>>>
 
1020 
  
Rule 51.79.74 Unless contraindicated for therapeutic reasons, the facility shall accommodate the 
patients' need to be outdoors through the use of nearby parks and playgrounds, 
adjacent countryside, and facility grounds. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.75 Recreational facilities and equipment shall be available, consistent with the 
patients' needs and the therapeutic program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.76 Recreational equipment shall be maintained in working order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.77 The environment shall be maintained and equipped so as to ensure the health and 
safety of the patients. Physical health and safety features of the environment shall 
conform to requirements of local, state, and federal authorities having jurisdiction. 
In any event, the facility shall provide verification of the following: 
1. Patients shall be protected against the danger of fire and smoke; 
2. Patients shall be protected against injury attributable to the design and equipment 
of the environment; 
3. Patients shall be protected against electrical hazard; and 
4. Patients shall be protected against spread of disease and infection. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.78 Fire Control and Internal Disaster.  The facility shall provide fire protection by 
the elimination of fire hazards, by the installation of necessary safeguards such as 
extinguishers, sprinkling devices, fire barriers to insure rapid and effective fire 
control and the adoption of written fire control and evacuation plans rehearsed at 
least three times a year by key personnel. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.79 Written fire control plans shall contain provisions for prompt reporting of all fire 
extinguishing fires; protection of patients, personnel and guests evacuation; 
training of personnel in use of first aid fire fighting equipment and cooperation 
with fire fighting authorities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.79.80 The facility shall have: 
<<<PAGE 1021>>>
 
1021 
  
1. Written evidence of regular inspections and approval by state or local fire control 
agencies; 
2. Stairwells kept closed by fire doors and equipped with unimpaired automatic 
closing devices; 
3. Fire extinguishers refilled when necessary and kept in condition for instant use. 
There shall be an annual inspection of each fire extinguisher which shall include a 
tag showing the month and year of the inspection and the initials of the inspector. 
Each liquid type extinguisher shall be hydrostatically tested every five years; 
4. Proper routine storage and prompt disposal of trash; 
5. "No Smoking" signs prominently displayed where appropriate, with rules 
governing the ban on smoking in designated areas enforced and obeyed by all 
personnel; 
6. Fire regulations easily available to all personnel and all fire codes rigidly observed 
and carried out; and 
7. Corridors and exits clear of all obstructions except for permanently mounted 
handrails. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 80   PHYSICAL PLANT CONSTRUCTION  
Rule 51.80.1 General.  Every institution subject to these Minimum Standards shall be housed in 
a safe building which contains all the facilities required to render the services 
contemplated in the application for license. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.80.2 Codes.  The term "safe" as used in Subchapter 80 hereof shall be interpreted in the 
light of compliance with the requirements of the latest codes presently in effect, 
which are incorporated by reference as a part of these Minimum Standards; 
National Fire Codes which includes the Life Safety Code, National Fire Protection 
Association or Standard Building Code, Southern Building Code Congress and 
Standard Plumbing Code, Southern Building Code Congress or American Standard 
National Plumbing Code, American Standards Association No. 17.3; and Sanitary 
Code of the Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.80.3 New buildings must conform to the codes listed in the paragraph above. Where a 
choice of codes is provided above, an applicant may choose which of the codes he 
will follow, and the provisions of the code chosen shall apply throughout except to 
the extent that these Minimum Standards specifically permit deviation therefrom.  
<<<PAGE 1022>>>
 
1022 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 81   SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS  
Rule 51.81.1 Construction shall not be started for any institution subject to these standards 
(whether new or remodeling or additions to an existing facility) until the plans 
and specifications for such construction or remodeling have been submitted to the 
Licensing Agency in writing and its approval of the changes given in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.2 Exception.  Foundation changes made necessary by unanticipated conditions, or 
any conditions which present a hazard to life or property if not immediately 
corrected. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.3 Plans and specifications for any substantial construction or remodeling should be 
prepared by competent architects and engineers licensed to practice in the state 
and who assume responsibility for supervising the construction. The following 
plans shall be submitted to the Licensing Agency for review: 
1. Preliminary Plans - To include schematics of building, plot plans showing size 
and shape of entire site, existing structures, if any, streets and location and 
characteristics of all needed utilities, floor plans of every floor diminished and 
with proposed use of each room or area shown. If for additions or remodeling, 
plan of existing building showing all proposed alterations, outline specifications 
to include a general description of the construction, type of finishes, and type of 
heating, ventilating, plumbing and electrical systems proposed. 
2. Final Working Drawings and Specifications - Complete and in sufficient detail 
to be the basis for the award of construction contracts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.4 All plans submitted for review must be accompanied in their first submission by 
an order of the governing board indicating the type and scope of license to be 
applied for. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.5 Plans receiving approval by the Licensing Agency upon which construction has 
not begun within six (6) months following such approval must be resubmitted for 
approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1023>>>
 
1023 
  
Rule 51.81.6 In all new facilities, plans must be submitted to all regulatory agencies, such as 
the County Health Department, etc., for approval prior to starting construction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.7 Upon completion of construction an inspection shall be made by the Licensing 
Agency and approval given prior to occupying the building or any part thereof. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.8 Environment. All facilities shall be so located that they are reasonably free from 
undue noises, smoke, dust or foul odors, and should not be located adjacent to 
railroads, freight yards, schools, children's playgrounds, airports, industrial plants 
or disposal plants. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.9 Zoning Restrictions.  The locations of an institution shall comply with all local 
zoning ordinances. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.10 Access. Institutions located in rural areas must be served by good roads which can 
be kept passable at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.11 Elements of Construction.  Corridors-shall be 6'0" wide and 7'6" high (clear). 
The surface of all floors and walls shall be washable. All corridors longer than 
150' shall be subdivided by a smoke barrier and must be maintained free of 
obstruction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.12 Doors.  All doors in corridors shall be 20-minutes fire rated floors (1-3/4" solid 
core wood door as a minimum). All doors to patient bedrooms, diagnostic and 
treatment areas, and other doors used by residents shall be at least 36" wide. No 
door shall swing into the corridor except closet doors. Doors to hazardous areas 
defined in the Life Safety Code shall be 1-1/2 hours "B" labeled fire doors. Exit 
doors shall conform to the requirements set forth in the Life Safety Code. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.13 Stairs. Shall be 44" wide, minimum; be in a 2-hour fire enclosure; and have a "B" 
(1-1/2 hour) level door at all landings. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1024>>>
 
1024 
  
Rule 51.81.14 Elevators. One power driven elevator is required in all facilities having patient 
rooms above the first floor. Two or more elevators are required if 60 or more 
patients are housed above the ground floor. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.15 One-Story Building. Wall, ceiling and roof construction shall be of a type 
approved as being of 1-hour fire resistive construction as defined by National 
Bureau of Fire Underwriters or the Bureau of Standards. Floor systems shall be of 
non-combustible construction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.16 Multi-Story Building. Must be of two-hour fire resistive constructions as defined 
in Standard Building Code or comply with the Life Safety Code of National Fire 
Protection Association as applied to hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.17 Fire Reporting and Protection. A manually operated electrically supervised fire 
alarm system shall be installed in each facility. There must be a telephone in the 
building to summon help in case of fire. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.18 Sprinkler systems tied into the fire alarm system shall be provided at least for 
hazardous areas. Adequate water supply shall be provided for the sprinkler 
system. Hazardous areas are: Laundries, Storage Areas, Repair and Maintenance 
Shops, Soiled Linen Collection Rooms, Trash Collection Rooms, Laundry 
Chutes, and Trash Chutes. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.19 Flame Spread Rate (ASTM Standard E84-61) on all wall and ceiling surfaces 
in required exists and hazardous areas shall be 25 or less. All other areas shall 
have a flame spread rating of not more than 75, except that up to 10% of the 
aggregate wall and ceiling area may have a finish with a rating up to 200. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.20 Heating and Ventilating.  Suitable artificial heat shall be furnished to maintain 
75 degrees F, inside temperature with 10 degrees F, outside temperature. 
Circulating hot water from a remote boiler or vapor-steam with circulating pumps 
and controls on emergency electrical service to provide heating in case of power 
failures are the preferred methods of heating. Electrical heating will be approved 
provided a standby electric generator is provided of capacity to furnish 80% of the 
maximum heating load in addition to other power and lighting loads that may be 
connected to it, or the facility is supplied by two electric service lines connected 
<<<PAGE 1025>>>
 
1025 
  
to separate transformers at the sub-station so arranged that electric services can be 
maintained in case of failure of one line or transformer. Direct fired units are 
forbidden except in areas such as laundries, storerooms, kitchens, and similar 
occupancies and then only if in ductwork or more than 8 feet above the floor. 
Open flame heaters are prohibited. Gas fired ranges and other appliances (except 
Bunsen burners) may be used where no hazard is created, but must be services 
with rigid pipe connections. Gas fired sterilizer, water heater, and other like 
appliances shall have provided adequate air intake for combustion and full 
venting for combustion products. No hall will be used as a plenum. Mechanical 
ventilation shall be installed in all toilets and janitors closets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.21 Toilets, janitors’ closets, soiled linen, dishwashing and similar areas shall 
have six (6) air changes per hour. Areas occupied by patients shall have two (2) 
air changes per hour. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.22 Plumbing.  All institutions subject to these standards shall be connected to an 
approved municipal water system or to a private supply whose purity has been 
certified by the laboratory of the Mississippi Department of Health.  Private 
supplies must be sampled, tested, and its purity certified at least twice annually 
and immediately following any repair or modification to the underground lines, 
the elevated tank, or to the well or pump. Supply must be adequate, both as to 
volume and pressure, for fire fighting purposes. Deficiencies in either must be 
remedied by the provision of auxiliary pumps, pressure tanks or elevated tanks as 
may be required. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.23 An approved circulating method of supplying hot water for all uses must be 
provided. Water to lavatories and bathing areas must be 100 degrees-110 degrees 
F. Water to mechanical dishwashers must be delivered at 180 degrees F. for 
rinsing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.24 Supply piping within the building shall be in accordance with plumbing code 
incorporated by reference in Rule 51.81.22 hereof. Special care must be taken to 
avoid use of any device or installation which might cause contamination of the 
supply through back-siphonage or cross connections. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.25 Sewage Disposal. All institutions subject to these standards shall dispose of all 
sanitary wastes through connection to a suitable municipal sewerage system or 
through a private sewerage system that has been approved in writing by the 
<<<PAGE 1026>>>
 
1026 
  
Sanitary Engineering Department of the Mississippi Department of Health and the 
Air and Water Pollution Board. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.81.26 All fixtures located in the kitchen, including the dishwasher, shall be installed so 
as to empty into a drain which is not directly connected to the sanitary house 
drain. Kitchen drain may empty into a manhole or catch basin having a perforated 
cover with an elevation of at least 24" below the kitchen floor elevation, and 
thence to the sewer. Exceptions: existing licensed institutions which have no 
plumbing fixtures installed on floors which are above the floor on which the 
kitchen is located. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 82   EMERGENCY ELECTRIC SERVICE  
Rule 51.82.1 General:  To provide electricity during an interruption of the normal electric 
supply that could affect the medical care, treatment, or safety of the occupants, an 
emergency source of electricity shall be provided and connected to certain circuits 
for lighting and power. The source of this emergency electric service shall be an 
emergency generator, with a stand-by supply of fuel of 24 hours. Emergency 
electrical systems shall be provided in accordance with the applicable section of 
the Life Safety Code. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.2 Patient Rooms.  Each patient room shall meet the following requirements: 
1. Shall contain 100 sq. ft. of floor area for a single bedroom and 80 sq. ft. per bed in 
multi-bedrooms; 
2. Ceiling Height. Shall be 8'0" minimum; 
3. All rooms housing patients shall be outside rooms and shall have window area 
equal to 1/8 of the floor area. The sill shall not be higher than 36 inches above the 
floor and shall be above grade. Windows shall not have any obstruction to vision 
(wall, cooling tower, etc.) within 50 feet as measured perpendicular to the plane 
of the window; 
4. Each patient shall be provided with a hanging storage space of not less than 16" X 
24" X 52" for his personal belongings; 
5. Each patient room shall be equipped with a quality bed acceptable for his 
environment; 
6. A bedside cabinet or table shall be provided; 
<<<PAGE 1027>>>
 
1027 
  
7. Rooms shall be equipped with curtains or blinds at windows. All curtains shall 
have a flame spread of 25 or less; 
8. All walls shall be suitable for washing; 
9. All walls and ceilings shall have a 1-hour fire rating; 
10. A lavatory shall be located in the bedroom or in a private toilet room; and 
11. Patient bed light shall be provided which shall be capable of control by the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.3 Service Areas.  The size of each service area will depend on the number beds 
within the unit and shall include the following: 
1. Nurses Station.  For charting, communication and storage for supplies and nurses 
personal effects; 
2. Nurses Toilet with Lavatory.  Convenient to nurses’ station; 
3. Clean Work Room.  For storage and assembly of supplies. Shall contain storage 
cabinets or storage carts, work counter and sink; 
4. Soiled Utility.  Shall contain deep sink work counter, waste receptacle, soiled linen 
receptacle; 
5. Medicine Station.  Adjacent to nurses’ station, with sink, small refrigerator, locked 
storage and work counter. (May be in clean work room in self-contained cabinet.); 
6. Clean Linen Storage.  A closet large enough to hold an adequate supply of clean 
linen; 
7. Provision for between-meal nourishments; 
8. Patient Bath.  At least one tub or shower stall for each 18 patients not served by 
private bath; 
9. Fire Extinguisher.  One approved Class 2A unit for each 3000 sq/ ft.; and 
10. Janitor's Closet.  Closet large enough to contain floor receptor with plumbing 
and space for some supplies and mop buckets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.4 Special Care Room for Isolation.   It shall contain: 
1. One patient bed per room; and 
<<<PAGE 1028>>>
 
1028 
  
2. Private lavatory and toilet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.5 Seclusion Room.  If a seclusion room is provided, it shall be provided with a key-
only lock or an electronic lock on the door tied into the fire alarm system, and a 
security screen on the window. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.6 Dietary. Construction and equipment shall comply with Mississippi Department 
of Health regulations, and shall include: 
1. Food preparation center. Provide lavatory (without mirror) with wrist action blades, 
soap dispenser and disposable towel dispenser. All cooking appliances to have 
ventilating hood;  
2. Food serving facilities. If dining space is provided, it shall contain a minimum of 
15 sq. ft. per person seated; 
3. Dishwashing room. Provide commercial type dishwashing equipment; 
4. Pot washing facilities; 
5. Refrigerated storage (three day supply); 
6. Day storage (three day supply); 
7. Cart cleaning facilities (can be in dishwashing room); 
8. Can wash and storage (must be fly-tight); 
9. Cart storage; 
10. Dietitian's office; 
11. Janitors closet; 
12. Personnel toilets and lockers convenient to, but not in, the kitchen proper; and 
13. Approved automatic fire extinguisher system in range hood. In addition, Class 1B 
extinguisher to be installed in the kitchen. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.7 Administrative Area:   To include: 
1. Business office with information desk, and personnel toilets; 
<<<PAGE 1029>>>
 
1029 
  
2. Administrator's office; 
3. Admitting area; 
4. Lobby or foyer, with public toilets; 
5. Medical Library (This area should be as close to medical records as possible); 
6. Space for conferences and in-service training; 
7. Medical records--office and storage; 
8. Director of Nurses' office; and 
9. Fire Extinguisher. An approved Class 2A unit shall be provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.8 Housekeeping Area. To include: 
1. Housekeeper's office or suitable area designated for record keeping; and 
2. Storage space for the maid's carts, if used. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.9 Laundry. To include: 
1. Soiled linen room with lavatory with wrist action blades; 
2. Clean linen and mending area. (To include space for storage of clean linen carts); 
3. Laundry process room.  Commercial type equipment sufficient for the needs of the 
facility. (If laundry is processed outside facility, this area not needed); 
4. Janitors closet; and 
5. Facilities shall be provided for personal laundry for use by patients. This area shall 
be separated from areas by a one hour fire rated wall. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.10 General Storage. There shall be a two hour fire rated lockable room large enough 
to provide five square feet of general storage for each bed provided. If storage is 
provided in a separate building it must be fifty feet away. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1030>>>
 
1030 
  
Rule 51.82.11 Boiler Room.  Space shall be adequate for the installation and maintenance of 
the required machinery. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.12 Maintenance Area.  Sufficient area for performing routine maintenance activities 
shall be provided and shall include an office or suitable area designated for 
recordkeeping. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.13 Day Room.  At least two general areas for use as living room, day room or 
recreation shall be provided. A minimum of 18 square feet per patient bed shall be 
available for this purpose. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.14 Dining Room.  A minimum of 15 square feet per patient bed shall be provided for 
use as a Dining Room. Adequate tables and chairs shall be provided to seat all 
patients, staff and guests. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.15 Counseling Rooms.  At least one small room shall be provided for each 20 
patients for the purpose of individual private treatment or counseling. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.16 Examination and Treatment Room.  At least one room shall be provided for 
the purpose of examination and treatment. The room shall be equipped with a 
lavatory and towel dispenser, examination table and storage space, with adequate 
lighting. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.82.17 Group Counseling Rooms.  At least two rooms shall be provided large enough to 
accommodate 8-10 patients for the purpose of group counseling sessions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 83   GLOSSARY  
Rule 51.83.1 Administrative.  Relates to the fiscal and general management of a facility rather 
than to the direct provision of services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.2 Aftercare.  Services that are provided to a patient after discharge and that support 
and increase the gains made during treatment. 
<<<PAGE 1031>>>
 
1031 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.3 Applicant.  An individual who has applied for admission to a program but who 
has not completed the intake process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.4 Approved.  Acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.5 Assessment.  Those procedures by which a program evaluates an individual's 
strengths, weakness, problems and needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.6 Audiological Assessment.  The audiological tests for delineating the site of 
auditory dysfunction, including such tests as pure tone air-conduction and bone-
conduction threshold, speech reception thresholds, speech discrimination 
measurements, impedance measurements, and others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.7 Audiologists, Qualified.  An individual who is certified by the American Speech-
Language-Hearing Association as clinically competent in the area of audiology 
and is licensed by the State. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.8 Audiometric Screening.  A process that may include such tests as pure tone aid 
conduction thresholds, pure tone air-conduction thresholds, pure tone air-
conduction suprathreshold screenings, impedance measurements, or observations 
of reactions to auditory stimuli. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.9 Audit, Financial.  An independent review by a public accountant certifying that a 
facility's financial reports reflect its financial status. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.10 Authentication.  Proof of authority and responsibility by written signature, 
identifiable initials, computer key, or other method. The use of a rubber stamp 
signature is acceptable only under the following conditions: the person whose 
signature the rubber stamp represents is the only one who has possession of the 
stamp and is the only one who uses it, and this person gives the chief executive 
officer a signed statement that he or she is the only one who has the stamp and is 
the only one who will use it. 
<<<PAGE 1032>>>
 
1032 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.11 Authority Having Jurisdiction.  The organization, office, or individual 
responsible for approving a piece of equipment, an installation, or a procedure. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.12 Bylaws.  The laws, rules, or regulations adopted for the government of the 
facility. Also used for the laws, rules, or regulations of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.13 Chief Executive Officer.  A job-descriptive term used to identify the individual 
appointed by the governing body to act on its behalf in the overall management of 
the facility. Other job titles may include administrator, superintendent, director, 
president, vice-president, and executive vice-president. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.14 Child Psychiatrist, Qualified.  A doctor of medicine who specializes in the 
assessment and treatment of children and/or adolescents having psychiatric 
disorders and who is fully licensed to practice medicine in the state in which he or 
she practices. The individual shall have successfully completed training in a child 
psychiatry fellowship program approved by the Liaison Committee on Graduate 
Medical Education of the American Medical Association or have been certified in 
child psychiatry by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.15 Child Psychologist, Qualified.  An individual licensed by the State Board of 
Psychological Examiners with a specialty area in either developmental 
psychology or in clinical or counseling psychology with demonstrated educational 
background and experience in the evaluation and treatment of children and/or 
adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.16 Department.  A staff entity organized on administrative, functional, or 
disciplinary lines. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.17 Dietetic Services.  The provision of services to meet the nutritional needs of 
patients, with specific emphasis on patients who have special dietary needs, for 
example, patients who are allergic to certain foods or who cannot accept a regular 
diet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1033>>>
 
1033 
  
Rule 51.83.18 Diet Manual.  An up-to-date, organized system for standardizing the ordering of 
diets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.19 Discharge.  The point at which the patient's active involvement with a facility is 
terminated and the facility no longer maintains active responsibility for the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.20 Drug History.  A delineation of the drugs used by a patient, including prescribed 
and unprescribed drugs and alcohol. A drug history includes, but is not 
necessarily limited to, the following: drugs used in the past; drugs used recently, 
especially within the preceding 48 hours; drugs of preference; frequency with 
which each drug is used; route of administration of each drug; drugs used in 
combination; dosages used; year of first use of each drug; previous occurrences of 
overdose, withdrawal, or adverse drug reactions; and history or previous treatment 
received for alcohol or drug abuse. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.21 Emergency Kit.  A kit designed to provide the medical supplies and 
pharmaceutical agents required during an emergency. In compiling emergency 
kits, staff should consider the patients' needs for psychotropic, anticholinergic, 
and adrenalin agents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.22 External Disaster.  A catastrophe that occurs outside the facility and for which 
the facility, based on its size, and resources must be prepared to serve the 
community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.23 Facility.  An organization that provides psychiatric substance abuse, and/or 
mental health services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.24 Fiscal Management.  Procedures used to control a facility's overall financial and 
general operations. Such procedures may include cost accounting, program 
budgeting, materials purchasing, and patient billing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1034>>>
 
1034 
  
Rule 51.83.25 Formulary.  A catalog of the pharmaceuticals approved for use in a facility. A 
formulary lists the names of the drugs and information regarding dosage, 
contraindications, and unit dispensing size. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.26 Goal.  An expected result or condition that takes time to achieve, that is specified 
in a statement of relatively broad scope, and that provides guidance in 
establishing intermediate objectives directed towards its attainment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.27 Governing Body.  The person or person with ultimate authority and 
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.28 Guardian.  A parent, trustee, committee, conservator, or other person or agency 
empowered by law to act on behalf of, or have responsibility for, an applicant or 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.29 Hazardous Area.  Any area in which the following are used: products that are 
highly combustible, highly flammable, or explosive; or materials that are likely to 
burn with extreme rapidity or produce poisonous fumes or gases. Consult the 
1972 edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) for further clarification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.30 Hazardous Procedures.  Procedures that place the patient at physical or 
psychological risk or in pain. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.31 Human Subject Research.  The use of patients receiving services in the 
systematic study, observation, or evaluation of factors related to the prevention, 
assessment, treatment and understanding of an illness. This involves all 
behavioral and medical experimental research that involves human beings and 
experimental subjects. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.32 Incident Reports.  Documentation of events or actions that are likely to lead to 
adverse effects and/or that vary from established policies and procedures 
pertaining to patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1035>>>
 
1035 
  
Rule 51.83.33 Intake.  The administrative and assessment process for admission to a program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.34 Interdisciplinary Team.  A group of clinical staff composed of representative 
from different professions, disciplines, or service areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.35 Listed.  Used to indicate equipment or materials included in a list published by a 
nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency, or other organization 
concerned with product evaluation. The organization periodically inspects the 
production of listed equipment or materials, and the organization's list states that 
the equipment or material either meets nationally recognized standards or has 
been tested and found suitable for use in a specified manner. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.36 May.  Used to reflect an acceptable method of compliance with a standard that is 
recognized but not preferred. See shall and should. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.37 Medical Record Administrator, Qualified.  A registered record administrator 
who has successfully passed an appropriate examination conducted by the 
American Medical Record Association. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.38 Medical Record Technician, Qualified.  An accredited record technician who 
has successfully passed the appropriate accreditation examination conducted by 
the American Medical Record Association. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.39 NFPA.  National Fire Protection Association, 470 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02210. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.40 Nurse.  A person licensed and registered to practice nursing in the state in which 
he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.41 Nurse, Practical.  A person licensed or registered as a practical or vocational 
nurse in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1036>>>
 
1036 
  
Rule 51.83.42 Nurse, Psychiatric, Qualified and/or Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse 
Practitioners.  A licensed nurse who has had at least three years of experience in 
psychiatric or mental health nursing and at least one year of experience in a 
supervisory position. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.43 Objective.  An unexpected result or condition that takes less time to achieve than 
a goal, is stated in measurable terms, has a specified time for achievement, and is 
related to the attainment of a goal. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.44 Occupational Therapist, Qualified.  An individual who is a graduate of an 
occupational therapy program approved by a nationally recognized accrediting 
body, or who currently holds certification by the American Occupational Therapy 
Association as an occupational therapist, registered, who meets any current legal 
requirements of licensure or registration; and who is currently competent in the 
field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.45 Outreach.  The process of systematically interacting with the community to 
identify persons in need of services, alert persons and their families to the 
availability of services, locate needed services, and enable persons to enter the 
service delivery system. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.46 Parenteral Product.  Sterile, pharmaceutical preparations ingested by the body 
through a route other than the alimentary canal. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.47 Patient.  An individual who receives treatment services. Patient is synonymous 
with client, resident, consumer, and recipient of treatment services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.48 Personnel Record.  The complete employment record of a staff member or an 
employee, including job application, education and employment history, 
performance evaluation, and, when applicable, evidence of current licensure, 
certification, or registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1037>>>
 
1037 
  
Rule 51.83.49 Pharmacist, Qualified.  An individual who has a degree in pharmacy and is 
licensed and registered to prepare, preserve, compound, and dispense drugs and 
chemicals in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.50 Physical Therapist.  A graduate of a physical therapy program approved by a 
nationally recognized accrediting body, or shall hold current registration and is 
currently competent in the field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.51 Physician, Qualified.  A doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy who is fully 
licensed to practice medicine in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.52 Program.  A general term for an organized system of services designed to 
address the treatment needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.53 Program Evaluation.  An assessment component of a facility that determines the 
degree to which a program is meeting its stated goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.54 Recreation Therapist, Qualified.  An individual who is a qualified recreation 
specialist; or has a bachelors' degree in recreation and one year of recreational 
experience in a health care setting; or has an associate degree in recreation or in a 
specialty area such as art or music plus completion of comprehensive in-service 
training in recreation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.55 Recreation Services.  Structured activities designed to develop an individual's 
creative, physical, and social skills through participation in recreational, art, 
dance, drama, social, and other activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.56 Rehabilitation Counselor.  An individual who has a bachelor's degree in 
rehabilitation counseling and three years of experience in working with 
children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.57 Restraint.  A physical or mechanical device used to restrict the movement of the 
whole or a portion of a patient's body. This does not include mechanisms used to 
<<<PAGE 1038>>>
 
1038 
  
assist a patient in obtaining and maintaining normative body functioning, for 
example, braces and wheelchairs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.58 Seclusion.  A procedure that isolates the patient to a specific environmental area 
removed from the patient community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.59 Service.  Used to indicate a functional division of a program or of the 
professional staff. Also used to indicate the delivery of care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.60 Shall.  Used to indicate a mandatory standard. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.61 Should.  Used in a standard to indicate the commonly accepted method of 
compliance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.62 Social Assessment.  The process of evaluating each patient's environment, 
religious background, childhood developmental history, financial status, reasons 
for seeking treatment, and other pertinent information that may contribute to the 
development of the individualized treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.63 Social Worker, Qualified.  An individual who is licensed in the State with a 
master's degree from an institution accredited by the Council on Social Work 
Education, and is clinically qualified by training with two years experience in 
working with mentally ill children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.64 Speech Screening.  A process that may include such tests as articulation in 
connected speech and formula testing situations; voice in terms of judgments of 
pitch, intensity, and quality and determinations of appropriate vocal hygiene; and 
fluency, usually measured in terms of frequency and severity of stuttering or 
dysfluency (based upon evaluation of speech flow-sequence, duration, rhythm, 
rate, and fluency). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1039>>>
 
1039 
  
Rule 51.83.65 Support Staff.  Employees or volunteers whose primary work activities involve 
clerical, housekeeping, security, laboratory, recordkeeping, and other functions 
necessary for the overall clinical and administrative operation of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.66 Teacher, Qualified.  An individual licensed and who has at least a bachelor's 
degree in education from an accredited institution. The individual shall have 
certification in special education, and preferably shall have training in the 
education or emotionally disturbed children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.67 Therapeutic Recreational Services.  Goal-oriented activities designed to help an 
individual develop expressive and/or performance skills through participation in 
art, crafts, dance, drama, movement, music, prevocational, recreation, self-care, 
and social activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.68 Transfer.  Movement of a patient from one treatment service or location to 
another. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.69 Utilization Review.  The process of using predefined criteria to evaluate the 
necessity and appropriateness of allocated services and resources to assure the 
facility's services are necessary, cost efficient, and effectively utilized. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.70 Vocational Assessments.  The process of evaluating each patient's past 
experiences and attitudes toward work; current motivations or areas of interest; 
and possibilities of future education, training, and/or employment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 51.83.71 Professional Art Therapist, Qualified.  A persons who has completed a master’s 
or doctoral degree program in art therapy, or an equivalent course of study, from 
an accredited educational institution and who is licensed by the State of 
Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
CHAPTER 52 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CHEMICAL DEPENDENCY 
UNITS 
Subchapter 1   INTRODUCTION LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY 
<<<PAGE 1040>>>
 
1040 
  
Rule 52.1.1 Mississippi Department of Health Mississippi Code Annotated 43-11-1 through 
43-11-27 (Supplement 1986) The Mississippi Health Care Commission adopted 
additional regulations for Chemical Dependency Units on August 19, 1982. The 
regulations became effective, September 19, 1982. The Mississippi Department of 
Health took over the licensing duties of the Mississippi Health Care Commission 
effective July 1, 1986. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.1.2 A Chemical Dependency Unit is a hospital or an established and dedicated unit of 
a "general", "psychiatric", or "rehabilitation" hospital, or a "freestanding" unit, 
which has beds that are organized, properly staffed and equipped to render 
services over a continuous period exceeding 24-hours to individuals requiring 
diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and other drug-related dependencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.1.3 These standards are to applied in conjunction with the Minimum Standards of 
Operation for Mississippi Hospitals where applicable. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.1.4 The standards are written so that they closely parallel the standards for 
accreditation of alcohol and drug abuse programs established by the Joint 
Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals. By basing these standards on the Joint 
Commission's standards, we have developed standards which have the input of a 
national panel of knowledgeable experts and skilled people on alcoholism and 
drug abuse treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 2   FACILITY MANAGEMENT:  GOVERNING BODY 
Rule 52.2.1 Every facility shall have a governing body that has overall responsibility for the 
operation of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.2 A public facility shall have a written description of the administrative 
organization for the agency within which it operates. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.3 A public facility shall also have a written description of how the lines of authority 
within the government agency relate to the governing body of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1041>>>
 
1041 
  
Rule 52.2.4 A private facility shall have a charter or constitution, bylaws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.5 The names and addresses of all owners or controlling parties of the facility 
(whether they are individuals; partnerships; corporate bodies; or subdivisions of 
other bodies, such a public agencies or religious, fraternal, or other charitable 
organizations) shall be fully disclosed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.6 In case of corporations, the names and addresses of all officers, directors, and 
principal stockholders either beneficial or of record shall be disclosed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.7 The governing body shall meet at least quarterly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.8 Minutes of these meetings shall be kept and shall include at least the following: 
1. The date of the meeting 
2. The names of members who attended 
3. The topics discussed 
4. The decisions reached and actions taken 
5. The dates for implementation of recommendations 
6. The reports of the chief executive officer and others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.9 The governing body shall establish a committee structure to fulfill its 
responsibilities and to assess the results of the facility's activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.10 The governing body, through the chief executive officer, shall have a written 
statement of the facility's goals and objectives, as well as written procedures for 
implementing these goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1042>>>
 
1042 
  
Rule 52.2.11 There shall be documentation that the statement and procedures are based upon a 
planning process, and that the facility's goals and objectives are approved by the 
governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.12 The governing body, through the chief executive officer, shall have a written plan 
for obtaining financial resources that are consonant with the facility's goals and 
objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.13 When a categorical program (for example, a child, adolescent, or adult 
psychiatric, alcoholism, or drug abuse program) is a component of a larger 
facility, the staff of the categorical program, subject to the overall responsibility 
of the governing body, shall be given the authority necessary to plan, organize, 
and operate the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.14 The categorical program shall hire and assign its own staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.15 The categorical program shall employ a sufficient number of qualified and 
appropriately trained staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.16 The governing body, through its chief executive officer, shall develop policies 
and shall make sufficient resources available (for example, funds, staff, 
equipment, supplies, and facilities) to assure that the program is capable of 
providing appropriate and adequate services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.17 The facility's physical and financial resources shall be adequately insured. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.18 Members of the governing body and appropriate administrative and professional 
staff should have adequate comprehensive liability insurance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.19 The governing body shall establish bylaws, rules and regulations, and a table of 
organization to guide relationships between itself and the responsible 
administration and professional staffs and the community. 
<<<PAGE 1043>>>
 
1043 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.20 The governing body may establish one set of bylaws, rules and regulations that 
clearly delineates the responsibilities and authority of the governing body and the 
administrative and professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.21 Administrative and professional staffs may establish separate bylaws, rules and 
regulations that are consistent with policies established by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.22 All bylaws, rules and regulations shall comply with legal requirements, be 
designed to encourage high quality patient care, and be consistent with the 
facility's community responsibility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.23 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the powers and duties of the 
governing body and its officers and committees; or the authority and 
responsibilities of any person legally designed to function as the governing body, 
as well as the authority and responsibility delegated to the responsible 
administrative and professional staffs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.24 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the eligibility criteria for governing 
body membership; the types of membership and the method of selecting 
members; frequency of governing body meetings; the number of members 
necessary for a quorum and other attendance requirements for governing body 
meetings; the requirement that meetings be documented in the form of written 
minutes and the duration of appointment or election for governing body members, 
officers, and committed chairpersons. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.25 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the eligibility criteria for governing 
body membership; the types of membership and the method of selecting 
members; frequency of governing body meetings; the number of members 
necessary for a quorum and other attendance requirements for governing body 
meetings; the requirement that meetings be documented in the form of written 
minutes and the duration of appointment or election for governing body members, 
officers, and committed chairpersons. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1044>>>
 
1044 
  
Rule 52.2.26 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the qualifications, authority, and 
responsibilities of the chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.27 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify the method for appointing the 
chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.28 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the administrative and 
professional staffs with the authority and freedom necessary to carry out their 
responsibilities within the organizational framework of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.29 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide the professional staff with the 
authority necessary to encourage high quality patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.30 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall state the procedures under which the 
administrative and professional staff cooperatively function. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.31 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the establishment of controls 
designed to encourage each member of the professional staff to observe the 
standards of the profession and assume and carry out functions in accordance with 
local, state, and federal laws and rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.32 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require the professional staff bylaws, 
rules and regulations to be subject to governing body approval. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.33 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify procedures for selecting 
professional staff officers, directors, and department or service chiefs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.34 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that physicians with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses, and clinical privileges evaluate and authenticate medical 
histories and physical examinations, and prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1045>>>
 
1045 
  
Rule 52.2.35 Such bylaws, rules and regulations may also allow dentists with appropriate 
qualifications, licenses, and clinical privileges to prescribe medications. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.36 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the procedure for conferring 
clinical privileges on all professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.37 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the responsibilities of physicians in 
relation to non-physician members of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.38 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide a mechanism through which the 
administrative and professional staffs report to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.39 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the means by which the 
administrative and professional staffs participate in the development of facility 
and program policies concerning program management and patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.40 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require an orientation program for new 
governing body members and a continuing education program for all members of 
the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.2.41 Such bylaws, rules and regulations shall require that the bylaws, rules and 
regulations be reviewed at least every two years, revised as necessary, and signed 
and dated to indicate the time of last review. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 3   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
Rule 52.3.1 The governing body shall appoint a chief executive officer who shall be employed 
on a full-time basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.2 The qualifications, authority, and duties of the chief executive officer shall be 
stated in the governing body's bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1046>>>
 
1046 
  
Rule 52.3.3 The chief executive officer shall be a health professional with appropriate 
professional qualifications and experience, including previous administrative 
responsibility in a health facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.4 The chief executive officer shall have a medical degree or at least a master's 
degree in administration, psychology, social work, education, or nursing; and, 
when required, should have appropriate licenses. Experience shall include 
previous administrative responsibility in a facility for children or adolescents. 
Experience may be substituted for a professional degree when it is carefully 
evaluated, justified, and documented by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.5 In facilities primarily serving children or adolescents, the chief executive officer 
shall have appropriate professional qualifications and experience, including 
previous administrative responsibility in a facility for children or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.6 In accordance with the facility's bylaws, rules and regulations, the chief executive 
officer shall be responsible to the governing body for the overall operation of the 
facility, including the control, utilization, and conservation of its physical and 
financial assets and the recruitment and direction of staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.7 The chief executive officer shall assist the governing body in formulating policy 
by preparing the following items and presenting them to and reviewing them with 
the governing body: 
1. Long-term and short-term plans of the facility. 
2. Reports on the nature and extent of funding and other available resources. 
3. Reports describing the facility's operations. 
4. Reports evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of facility or program activity. 
5. Budgets and financial statements. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.3.8 The chief executive officer shall be responsible for the preparation of a written 
manual that defines the facility policies and procedures and that is regularly 
revised and updated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1047>>>
 
1047 
  
Rule 52.3.9 There shall be documentation that the chief executive officer attends and 
participates in continuing education programs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 4   PROFESSIONAL STAFF ORGANIZATION 
Rule 52.4.1 There shall be a single organized professional staff that has the overall 
responsibility for the quality of all clinical care provided to patients, and for the 
ethical conduct and professional practices of its members, as well as for 
accounting therefore to the governing body. The manner in which the professional 
staff is organized shall be consistent with the facility's documented staff 
organization and bylaws, rules and regulations, and pertain to the setting where 
the facility is located. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and the 
rules and regulations of the governing authority shall require that a qualified 
physician be responsible for diagnosis and all care and treatment. The 
organization of the professional staff, and its bylaws, rules and regulations shall 
be approved by the facility's governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.2 The professional staff shall strive to assure that each member is qualified for 
membership and shall encourage the optimal level of professional performance of 
its members through the appointment/reappointment procedure, the specific 
delineation of clinical privileges, and the periodic reappraisal of each staff 
member according to the provisions. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.3 Qualifications. The appointment and reappointment of professional staff members 
shall be based upon well-defined, written criteria that are related to the goals and 
objectives of the facility as stated in the bylaws, rules and regulations of the 
professional staff and of the governing body. 
1. Upon application or appointment to the professional staff, each individual must 
sign a statement to the effect that he or she has read and agrees to be bound by the 
professional staff and governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
2. The initial appointment and continued professional staff membership shall be 
dependent upon clinical competence and ethical practice in keeping with the 
qualifications, standards, and requirements set forth in the professional staff and 
governing body bylaws, rules and regulations. 
3. Unless otherwise provided by law, only those practitioners who are licensed, 
certified, or registered, or who have demonstrated competence and experience, 
shall be eligible for professional staff membership. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1048>>>
 
1048 
  
Rule 52.4.4 Method of Selection. Each facility is responsible for developing a process of 
appointment to the professional staff whereby it can satisfactorily determine that 
the person is appropriately licensed, certified, registered, or experienced, and 
qualified for the privileges and responsibilities he or she seeks. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.5 Privilege Delineation. Privileges shall be delineated for each member of the 
professional staff, regardless of the type and size of the facility and the age and 
disability group served. 
1. Delineation of privileges shall be based on all verified information available in the 
applicant's or staff member's credentials file. 
2. Whatever method is used to delineate clinical privileges for each professional staff 
applicant, there must be evidence that the granting of such privileges is based on 
the member's demonstrated current competence. 
3. Clinical privileges shall be facility-specific. 
4. The professional staff shall delineate in its bylaws, rules and regulations of the 
qualifications, status, clinical duties, and responsibilities of clinical practitioners 
who are not members of the professional staff but whose services require that they 
be processed through the usual professional staff channels. 
5. The training, experience, and demonstrated competence of individuals in such 
categories shall be sufficient to permit their performing their assigned functions. 
6. There shall be provisions for individuals in such categories to receive professional 
supervision, when indicated, from their professional counterparts. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.6 Reappointment. The facility's professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations 
shall provide for review and reappointment of each professional staff member at 
least once every two years. 
1. The reappointment process should include a review of the individual's status by a 
designated professional staff committee, such as the credentials committee. 
2. When indicated, the credentials committee shall require the individual to submit 
evidence of his or her current health status that verifies the individual's ability to 
discharge his or her responsibilities. 
3. The committee's review of the clinical privileges of a staff member for 
reappointment should include the individual's past and current professional 
performance as well as his or her adherence to the governing body and 
professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
<<<PAGE 1049>>>
 
1049 
  
4. The professional staff bylaws rules and regulations shall limit the time within 
which the professional staff reappointment and privilege delineation processes 
must completed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.7 Professional Staff Organization. The professional staff shall be organized to 
accomplish its required functions. 
1. The professional staff organization must provide a framework in which the staff 
can carry out its duties and functions effectively. The complexity of the 
organization shall be consistent with the size of the facility and the scope of its 
activities. 
2. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall provide for the selection 
of officers for an executive committee and when appropriate, for other 
organizational components of the facility. 
3. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations should specify the organization 
needed to provide effective governance of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.8 Executive Committee. The executive committee shall be empowered to act for the 
professional staff in the intervals between the staff meetings.  The committee shall 
serve as a liaison mechanism between the professional staff and the 
administration. 
1. There shall be a mechanism that assures medical participation in the deliberations 
of the executive committee. 
2. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall define the size, 
composition, method of selecting members, and frequency of meetings of the 
executive committee. 
3. The executive committee shall maintain a permanent record of its proceedings and 
actions. 
4. The functions and responsibilities of the executive committee shall include at least 
the following: 
a.    Receiving and acting upon reports and recommendations from professional 
staff committees, departments, and services. 
b. Implementing the approved policies of the professional staff. 
c.    Recommending to the governing body all matters relating to appointments and 
reappointments, staff categorization and assignments, clinical privileges, and 
<<<PAGE 1050>>>
 
1050 
  
except when such is a function of the professional staff or one of its committees, 
corrective action. 
d. Fulfilling the professional staff's accountability to the governing body for the 
quality of the overall clinical care rendered to patients in the facility; and 
e.    Initiating and pursuing corrective action when warranted, in accordance with 
the provisions of the professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.4.9 Professional Staff Bylaws. The professional staff shall develop and adopt bylaws, 
rules and regulations to establish a framework of self-government and a means of 
accountability to the governing body. The bylaws, rules and regulations shall be 
subject to the approval of the governing body. 
1. The professional staff shall regulate itself by its bylaws, rules and regulations. 
2. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall reflect current staff 
practices, shall be enforced, and shall be periodically reviewed and revised as 
necessary. 
3. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include a requirement for 
an ethical pledge from each practitioner. 
4. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall describe the specific role 
of each discipline represented on the professional staff or exercising clinical 
privileges in the care of patients. 
5. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall include the following 
patient record requirements. 
6. Symbols and abbreviations shall be used only when they have been approved by 
the professional staff and when there is an explanatory legend; 
7. The categories of personnel who are qualified to accept and transcribe verbal 
orders, regardless of the mode of transmission of the orders, shall be specifically 
identified; 
8. The period of time following admission to the facility within which a history and 
physical examination must be entered in the patient record shall be specified; 
9. The time period in which patient records must be completed following discharge 
shall be specified and shall not exceed fourteen (14) days; and 
10. The entries in patient records that must be dated and authenticated by the 
responsible practitioner shall be specified. 
<<<PAGE 1051>>>
 
1051 
  
11. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify mechanisms for 
review, evaluation, and monitoring of professional staff practices. 
12. The professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations shall specify mechanisms for 
the denial of staff appointments and reappointments, as well as for denial, 
curtailment, suspension, or revocation of clinical privileges. 
13. When appropriate, this procedure shall provide for a practitioner to be heard, upon 
request, at some stage of the process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 5   WRITTEN PLAN FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AND STAFF 
COMPOSITION 
Rule 52.5.1 The facility shall formulate and specify in a written plan for professional services 
its goals, objectives, policies, and programs so that its performance can be 
measured. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.2 The plan shall describe the services offered by the facility so that a frame of 
reference for judging the various aspects of the facility's operation is available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.3 The written plan for professional services shall describe the following: 
1. the population served, including age groups and other characteristics of the patient 
population; 
2. the hours and days the facility operates; 
3. the methods used to carry out initial screening and/or triage; 
4. the intake or admission process; including how the initial contact was made with 
the patient and the family or significant others; 
5. the assessment and evaluation procedures provided by the facility; 
6. the methods used to deliver services to meet the identified clinical needs of patients 
served; 
7. the basic therapeutic programs offered by the facility; 
8. the treatment planning process and the periodic review of therapy; 
9. the discharge and post-therapy planning processes; 
<<<PAGE 1052>>>
 
1052 
  
10. the organizational relationships of each of the facility's therapeutic programs, 
including channels of staff communication, responsibility, and authority, as well 
as supervisory relation-ships; and 
11. the means by which the facility provides, or makes arrangements for the provision 
of, the following: 
a. other medical, special assessments, and therapeutic services; 
b. patient education services, whether provided from within or outside the facility; 
c. emergency services and crisis intervention; and 
d. discharge and aftercare, including post-therapy planning and follow-up 
evaluation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.4 When the facility is organized by departments or services, the written plan for 
professional services shall describe how each department or service relates to the 
goals and other programs of the facility, specify lines of responsibility within each 
department or service, and define the rolls of department or service personnel and 
the methods for interdisciplinary collaboration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.5 When a facility is organized on a team or unit basis, either totally or in part, the 
written plan for professional services shall delineate the roles and responsibilities 
of team members in meeting the identified clinical needs of patients and in 
relation to the goals and programs of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.6 The written plan for professional services shall be made known and available to 
all professional personnel and to the chief executive officer. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.7 The plan shall be reviewed at least annually, and revised as necessary, in relation 
to the changing needs of the patients, the community, and the overall objectives 
and goals of the facility, and it shall be signed and dated by the reviewers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.8 Within the scope of its activities, the facility shall have enough appropriately 
qualified health care professional, administrative and support staff available to 
adequately assess and address the identified clinical needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1053>>>
 
1053 
  
Rule 52.5.9 Appropriately qualified professional staff may include qualified child and/or 
adolescent psychiatrists and other physicians, clinical psychologists, social 
workers, psychiatric nurses, and other health care professionals in numbers and 
variety appropriate to the services offered by the facility and with training and 
experience working with children and/or adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.10 When appropriate qualified professional staff are not available or needed on a 
fulltime basis, arrangements shall be made to obtain sufficient services on an 
attending continuing consultative, or part-time basis. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.11 There shall be documentation to verify that health care professional staff meets all 
federal, state, and local requirements for licensing, registration, or certification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.12 Medical Services. A physician licensed in the State of Mississippi shall be 
responsible for diagnosis and all medical care and treatment. Medical services 
shall be provided directly or on call 24-hours a day, 7 days a week. Upon 
admission there shall be written orders for the immediate care of the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.13 Nursing Services. Nursing services shall be under the direct supervision of a 
registered professional nurse who has had at least one (1) year of experience in 
psychiatric or mental health nursing or has had previous work experience in 
chemical dependency units. 
1. The number of registered professional nurses, licensed practical nurses, and other 
nursing personnel shall be adequate to formulate and carry out the nursing 
components of the individual treatment plan for each patient. 
2. There shall be a registered professional nurse on duty 24-hours a day, 7-days a 
week, to plan, assign, supervise, and evaluate nursing care, and to provide for the 
delivery of nursing care to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.14 Psychiatric Services. Patients shall be provided with psychiatric services, in 
accordance with their needs by a psychiatrist licensed in the State of Mississippi.  
Services to patients include evaluations, consultations therapy and program 
development. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1054>>>
 
1054 
  
Rule 52.5.15 Psychiatric Services. Psychiatric services are under the supervision of a clinical 
director, service chief or equivalent licensed physician who is qualified to provide 
the leadership required for an intensive treatment program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.16 Psychological Services. Patients shall be provided psychological services in 
accordance with their needs by a qualified psychologist. 
1. Services to patients include evaluations, consultations, therapy and program 
development. 
2. A qualified psychologist is an individual licensed by the State Board of 
Psychological Examiners with a specialty area in Clinical or Counseling 
Psychology (refer to Mississippi Code of 1972, annotated and amended, Section 
73-31-1). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.17 Social Services. Social work services are under the supervision of a licensed 
qualified social worker. 
1. The director of the service or department shall have a master's degree from an 
accredited school of social work, or have been certified by the Academy of 
Certified Social Workers. 
2. Social work staff shall be qualified and numerically adequate to provide the 
following services: 
a. Psychosocial data for diagnosis and treatment planning. 
b. Direct therapeutic services to individual patients, patient groups or families. 
c. Develop community resources. 
d. Participate in interdisciplinary conferences and meetings concerning treatment 
planning, including identification and utilization of other facilities and 
alternative forms of care and treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.5.18 Activity Services. Activity service staff shall be sufficient in number and skills to 
meet the needs of patients and achieve the goals of the service. The activity service 
shall be supervised by a qualified activity director.    A qualified activity director is 
an individual with a bachelor's degree who has at least one-year of experience in 
assessing, planning, and coordinating activity services in a health care setting. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1055>>>
 
1055 
  
Subchapter 6   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 
Rule 52.6.1 Personnel policies and procedures shall be developed in writing, adopted, and 
maintained to promote the objectives of the facility and to provide for an adequate 
number of qualified personnel during all hours of operation to support the 
functions of the facility and the provision of high quality care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.2 All personnel policies shall be reviewed and approved on an annual basis by the 
governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.3 There shall be documentation to verify that the written personnel policies and 
procedures are explained and made available to each employee. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.4 The policies and procedures shall include a mechanism for determining that all 
personnel are medically and emotionally capable of performing assigned tasks 
and are free of communicable and infectious diseases. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.5 There shall be written policies and procedures for handling cases of patient 
neglect and abuse. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.6 The policies and procedures on patient neglect or abuse shall be given to all 
personnel. Any alleged violations of these policies and procedures shall be 
investigated, and the results of such investigation shall be reviewed and approved 
by the director and reported to the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.6.7 A personnel record shall be kept on each staff member and shall contain the 
following items, as appropriate: 
1. Application for employment 
2. Written references and a record of verbal references 
3. Verification of all training and experience, and licensure, certification, registration 
and/or renewals 
4. Wage and salary information 
<<<PAGE 1056>>>
 
1056 
  
5. Performance appraisals 
6. Initial and subsequent health clearances 
7. Disciplinary and counseling actions 
8. Commendations 
9. Employee incident reports 
10. Record of orientation to the facility, its policies and procedures and the 
employee's position. 
11. For each position in the facility, there shall be a written job description that 
specifies the duties and responsibilities of the position and the minimum level of 
education, training, and/or related work experience required or needed to fulfill it. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 7   STAFF DEVELOPMENT 
Rule 52.7.1 The facility shall have a written plan as evidence of implementation of a program 
of staff development and in-service training that is consistent with the basic goals 
and objectives of the program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.2 Staff development shall be under the supervision and direction of a committee or 
qualified person. This person or committee may delegate responsibility for any 
part of the program to appropriately qualified individuals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.3 The staff development plan shall include plans for orientation of new employees 
and shall specify subject areas to be covered in the orientation process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.4 The staff development program shall reflect all administrative and service changes 
in the facility and shall prepare personnel for promotions and responsibilities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.5 A continuous professional education program shall be provided to keep the 
professional staff informed of significant clinical and administrative 
developments and skills. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1057>>>
 
1057 
  
Rule 52.7.6 The facility shall provide continuing training for all staff and specific orientation 
for all new personnel in the principles of confidentiality, privacy, patients' rights, 
infection control, fire prevention, disaster preparedness, accident prevention and 
patient safety. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.7 Specialized training shall be provided for staff working with children and 
adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.7.8 The facility shall have documentation of the staff development, in-service training 
and orientation activities of all employees. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 8   PATIENT RIGHTS 
Rule 52.8.1 There shall be written policies and procedures designed to enhance the dignity of 
all patients and to protect their rights as human beings. These written policies and 
procedures shall include but not be limited to the following standards: 
1. There shall be procedures to inform all patients of their legal and human rights and 
the rules and regulations of the facility applicable to his or her conduct. There shall 
be documentation of implementation of these procedures. 
2. Physical restraints and seclusion shall be used only in extreme cases to protect the 
patient from injuring himself or others, and when all other alternatives are 
exhausted. They shall not be used as punishment of staff convenience. 
a. There shall be documentation verifying that patients under physical restraint or 
in seclusion are observed by a staff member at least every thirty (30) minutes. 
b. Authorization for the use of physical restraints and/or seclusion shall be written 
as justified in the patient's record by the attending physician. This authorization 
shall be renewed at least every twenty-four (24) hours. 
3. The patient has the right, to the extent permitted by law, to refuse specific 
medications or treatment procedures. The responsibility of the facility, when the 
patient refuses treatment, is to seek appropriate legal alternatives or orders of 
involuntary treatment or, in accordance with professional standards, to terminate 
the relationship with the patient upon reasonable notice. 
4. The risks associated with the use of any drugs and/or procedures shall be fully 
explained to the patient in terms that he/she can understand.  The decision as to 
whether or not the patient is able to exercise sound judgment rests with the 
physician and must be documented in the patient's clinical record. 
<<<PAGE 1058>>>
 
1058 
  
5. The patient shall give his consent in writing prior to the use of potentially 
hazardous drugs and procedures. In the event that the patient is unable to exercise 
sound judgment, the written consent of family members having the legal right to 
consent must be obtained prior to the use of potentially hazardous drugs and 
procedures. Potentially hazardous drugs and procedures shall be administered in 
accordance with accepted clinical practice and shall be directed and supervised by a 
physician. 
6. There shall be written policies and procedures for reviewing and responding to 
patient's communications, e.g. opinions, recommendations, and grievances, in a 
way that will preserve and foster conflict resolution and problem solving. The 
written policies shall also delineate the means by which patients are familiarized 
with these procedures. Each patient's personal privacy shall be assured and 
protected within the constraints of the individual treatment plan. 
7. There shall be procedures designed to protect the patient's rights and privacy with 
respect to facility visitors, e.g. educational or other individual or group visitations 
through the program. The patients shall be informed in advance of such visitations, 
which shall be conducted so as to minimally interrupt the patient's usual activities 
and therapeutic program. 
8. The facility shall provide the patient with means of communication with persons 
outside the program in at least the following ways, unless contraindicated by 
physician. Patients shall be allowed to conduct private telephone conversations 
with family and friends. Patients shall be allowed to send and receive unopened 
mail. 
9. The facility shall inform the patient, the patient's family, or legal guardian as 
appropriate, of the cost (itemized when possible) of services rendered. 
10. The facility shall assure confidential treatment of personal and Medical Records, 
and may approve or refuse their release to any individual outside the family, 
except, in case of transfer to another health care institution, or as required by law 
or third-party payment contract. 
11. Each patient's personal dignity shall be recognized and respected in the provision 
of all care and treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 9   MEDICAL RECORDS 
Rule 52.9.1 Organization. A Medical Record shall be maintained in accordance with 
accepted professional principles for each patient admitted for care in the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1059>>>
 
1059 
  
Rule 52.9.2 Such records shall be kept confidential and only authorized personnel shall have 
access to the record. Staff members and other persons having access to patient 
records shall be required to abide by the written policies regarding confidentiality 
of patient records and disclosure of information in the records as well as all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations. Policies on 
confidentiality of records shall also conform to the alcohol and drug abuse 
confidentiality regulations as published in Part IV of the July 1, 1975 Federal 
Register. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that protect the 
confidentiality of patient records and govern the disclosure of information in the 
records. The policies and procedures shall specify the conditions under which 
information on applicants or patients may be disclosed and the procedures for 
releasing such information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.4 A patient or his or her authorized representative may consent to the release of 
information provided that written consent is given on a form containing the 
following information: 
1. name of patient 
2. name of program 
3. the name of the person, agency or organization to which the information is to be 
disclosed 
4. the specific information to be disclosed 
5. the purpose for the disclosure 
6. the date the consent was signed and the signature of the individual witnessing the 
consent 
7. the signature of the patient, guardian or authorized representative, and 
8. a notice that the consent is valid only for a specified period of time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.5 The written consent of a patient, or his or her authorized representative, to the 
disclosure of information shall be considered valid only if the following 
conditions have been met: 
<<<PAGE 1060>>>
 
1060 
  
1. the patient or the representative shall be informed, in a manner calculated to assure 
his or her understanding, of the specific type of information that has been 
requested and, if known, the benefits and disadvantages of releasing the 
information; 
2. the patient or the representative shall give consent voluntarily; 
3. the patient or the representative shall be informed that the provision of services is 
not contingent upon his or her decision concerning the release of information; and 
4. the patient's consent shall be acquired in accordance with all applicable federal, 
state, and local laws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.6 Every consent for release of information, the actual date the information was 
released, the specific information released, and the signature of the staff member 
who released the information shall be made a part of the patient record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.7 In a life-threatening situation or when an individual's condition or situation 
precludes the possibility of obtaining written consent, the facility may release 
pertinent medical information to the medical personnel responsible for the 
individual's care without the individual's consent and without the authorization of 
the chief executive officer or a designee, if obtaining such authorization would 
cause an excessive delay in delivering treatment to the individual. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.8 When information has been release under emergency conditions, the staff member 
responsible for the release of information shall enter all pertinent details of the 
transaction into the individual's record, including at least the following items: 
1. the date the information was released; 
2. the person to whom the information was released; 
3. the reason the information was released; 
4. the reason written consent could not be obtained; and 
5. the specific information released. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.9 The patient or applicant shall be informed that the information was released as 
soon as possible after the release of information. 
<<<PAGE 1061>>>
 
1061 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.10  Medical Records shall not be removed from the facility except upon subpoena 
and court order. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.11 Preservation and Storage. Records shall be preserved, either in the original or by 
microfilm, for a period of time not less than that determined by the statute of 
limitations in the State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.12 Written Policies and Procedures shall govern the compilation, storage, 
dissemination, and accessibility of patient records. The policies and procedures 
shall be designed to assure that the facility fulfills its responsibility to safeguard 
and protect the patient record against loss, unauthorized alteration, or disclosure 
of information; to assure that each patient record contains all required 
information; to assure uniformity in the format and forms in use in patient 
records; to require entries in patient records to be dated and signed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.13 The facility shall provide adequate facilities for the storage, processing, and 
handling of patient records, including suitably locked and secured rooms and 
files. When a facility stores patient data on magnetic tape, computer files, or other 
types of automated information systems, adequate security measures shall prevent 
inadvertent or unauthorized access to such data. A written policy shall govern the 
disposal of patient records. Methods of disposal shall be designed to assure the 
confidentially of information in the records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.14 Personnel. The patient records department shall maintain, control, and supervise 
the patient records, and shall be responsible for maintaining the quality. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.15 A qualified medical record individual who is employed on at least a part-time 
basis, consistent with the needs of the facility and the professional staff, shall be 
responsible for the patient records department. This individual shall be a 
registered record administrator or an accredited record technician who has 
successfully completed examination requirements of the American Medical 
Record Association, or an individual with the documented equivalent in training 
and/or experience. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1062>>>
 
1062 
  
Rule 52.9.16 When it can be demonstrated that the size, location, or needs of the facility do not 
justify employment of a qualified individual, the facility must secure the 
consultative assistance of a qualified record administrator at least twice a year to 
assure that the patient record department is adequate to meet the needs of the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.17 Centralization of Reports. All clinical information pertaining to a patient's stay 
shall be centralized in the patient's record. The original or all reports originating 
in the facility shall be filed in the medical record. Appropriate patient records 
shall be kept on the unit where the patient is being treated and shall be directly 
accessible to the clinicians caring for the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.18 Contents of Records. The medical record shall contain sufficient information to 
justify the diagnosis and warrant the treatment and end results. The patient record 
shall describe the patient's health status at the time of admission, the services 
provided and the patient's progress in the facility, and the patient's health status at 
the time of discharge. The patient record shall provide information for the review 
and evaluation of the treatment provided to the patient. When appropriate, data in 
the patient record shall be used in training, research, evaluation, and quality 
assurance programs. When indicated, the patient record shall contain 
documentation that the rights of the patient and of the patient's family are 
protected. The patient record shall contain documentation of the patient's and, as 
appropriate, family members' involvement in the patient's treatment program. 
When appropriate, a separate record may need to be maintained on each family 
member involved in the patient's treatment program. The patient record shall 
contain identifying data that is recorded on standardized forms. This identifying 
data shall include the following: 
1. full name; 
2. home address; 
3. home telephone number; 
4. date of birth; 
5. sex; 
6. race or ethnic origin; 
7. next of kin; 
8. education; 
<<<PAGE 1063>>>
 
1063 
  
9. marital status; 
10. type and place of employment; 
11. date of initial contact or admission to the facility; 
12. legal status, including relevant legal documents; 
13. other identifying data as indicated; 
14. date the information was gathered; and 
15. signature of the staff member gathering the information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.19 The patient record shall contain information on any unusual occurrences, such as 
the following: 
1. treatment complications; 
2. accidents or injuries to the patient; 
3. morbidity; 
4. death of a patient; and 
5. procedures that place the patient at risk or that cause unusual pain. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.20 As necessary, the patient record shall contain documentation of the consent of the 
patient, appropriate family member or guardians for admission, treatment, 
evaluation, aftercare, or research. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.21 The patient record shall contain both physical and emotional diagnoses that have 
been made using a recognized diagnostic system. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.22 The patient record shall contain reports of laboratory, roentgenographic, or other 
diagnostic procedures, and reports of medical/surgical services when performed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.23 The patient record shall contain correspondence concerning the patient's 
treatment, and signed and dated notations of telephone calls concerning the 
<<<PAGE 1064>>>
 
1064 
  
patient's treatment. A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's record 
within a reasonable period of time (not to exceed 14-days) following discharge 
as determined by the professional staff bylaws, rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.24 The patient record shall contain a plan for aftercare. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.25 All entries in the patient record shall be signed and dated. Symbols and 
abbreviations shall be used only if they have been approved by the professional 
staff, and only when there is an explanatory legend. Symbols and abbreviations 
shall not be used in the recording of diagnoses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.26 When a patient dies, a summation statement shall be entered in the record in the 
form of a discharge summary. The summation statement shall include the 
circumstances leading to death and shall be signed by a physician. An autopsy 
shall be performed whenever possible. When an autopsy is performed, a 
provisional anatomic diagnosis shall be recorded in the patient's record within 72 
hours. The complete protocol shall be made part of the record within three 
months. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.27 Promptness of Record Completion. Current records shall be completed 
promptly upon admission. Records of patients discharged shall be completed 
within 14 days following discharge. The staff regulations of the facility shall 
provide for the supervision or termination of staff privileges of physicians who 
are persistently delinquent in completing records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.9.28 Identification, Filing and Indexing. A system of identification and filing to 
ensure the prompt location of a patient's medical records shall be maintained.   
1. The patient index cards shall bear at least the full name of the patient, the address, 
the birth date, and the medical record number. 
2. Records shall be indexed according to disease and physician and shall be kept up to 
date. For indexing, any recognized system may be used. 
3. Indexing shall be current within six months following discharge of the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1065>>>
 
1065 
  
Subchapter 10 FACILITY AND PROGRAM EVALUATION 
Rule 52.10.1 Program evaluation is a management tool primarily utilized by the facility's 
administration to assess and monitor, on a priority basis, a variety of facility, 
service, and programmatic activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.2 The facility shall have a written statement of goals and objectives.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.3 The goals and objectives shall result from a planning process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.4 The goals and objectives shall be related to the needs of the population served. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.5 The written statement of the goals and objectives of the facility service and 
programmatic activities shall be provided to the governing body and facility 
administration and shall be made available to staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.6 The facility shall have a written plan for evaluating its progress in attaining its 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.7 The written plan shall specify the information to be collected and the methods to 
be used in retrieving and analyzing this information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.8 The written plan shall specify methods for assessing the utilization of staff and 
other resources to meet facility goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.9 The written plan shall specify when evaluations shall be conducted. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.10 The written plan shall specify the criteria to be used in assessing the facility's 
progress in attaining its goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1066>>>
 
1066 
  
Rule 52.10.11 The written plan shall require an explanation of any failure to achieve facility 
goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.12 There shall be documentation that the goals and objectives of facility, service, and 
programmatic activities shall be evaluated at least annually and revised as 
necessary. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.13 There shall be documentation that the results of the evaluation shall be provided 
to the governing body and facility administration and shall be made available to 
staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.10.14 There shall be documentation that the findings of the evaluation have influenced 
facility and program planning. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 11 FISCAL MANAGEMENT 
Rule 52.11.1 The facility shall annually prepare a formal, written budget of expected revenues 
and expenses. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.2 The budget shall categorize revenues for the facility by source. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.3 The budget shall categorize expenses by the types of services of programs 
provided. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.4 The budget shall be reviewed and approved by the governing body prior to the 
beginning of the fiscal year. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.5 Revisions made in the budget during the fiscal year shall be reviewed and 
approved by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.6 The facility management system shall include a fee schedule. 
<<<PAGE 1067>>>
 
1067 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.7 The facility shall maintain current, written schedules of rate and charge policies 
that have been approved by the governing body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.11.8 The fee schedule shall be accessible to personnel and to individuals served by the 
facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 12 INDIVIDUALIZED COMPREHENSIVE TREATMENT PLANNING 
INTAKE 
Rule 52.12.1 Written policies and procedures governing the intake process shall specify the 
following: 
1. the information to be obtained on all applicants or referrals for admission; 
2. the records to be kept on all applicants; 
3. the statistical data to be kept on the intake process; and 
4. the procedures to be followed when an applicant or a referral is found ineligible for 
admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.2 Criteria for determining the eligibility of individuals for admission shall be clearly 
stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.3 The intake procedure shall include an initial assessment of the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.4 The intake assessment shall be done by professional staff. The results of the 
intake assessment shall be clearly explained to the patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.5 The results of the intake assessment shall be clearly explained to the patient's 
family when appropriate. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1068>>>
 
1068 
  
Rule 52.12.6 Acceptance of a patient for treatment shall be based on an intake procedure that 
results in the following conclusions: 
1. the treatment required by the patient is appropriate to the intensity and restrictions 
of care provided by the facility or program component; and/or 
2. the treatment required can be appropriately provided by the facility or program 
component; and 
3. the alternatives for less intensive and restrictive treatment are not available. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.7 During the intake process, every effort shall be made to assure that applicants 
understand the following: 
1. the nature and goals of the treatment programs; 
2. the treatment costs to be borne by the patient, if any; and 
3. the rights and responsibilities of patients, including the rules governing patient 
conduct and the types of infractions that can result in disciplinary action or 
discharge from the facility or program component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.8 Facilities shall have policies and procedures that adequately address the following 
items for each patient: 
1. responsibility for medical and dental care, including consents for medical or 
surgical care and treatment; 
2. when appropriate, arrangements for family participation in the treatment program; 
3. arrangements for clothing, allowances, and gifts; 
4. arrangements regarding the patient's departure from the facility or program; and 
5. arrangements regarding the patient's departure from the facility or program against 
clinical advice. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.9 When a patient is admitted on court order, the rights and responsibilities of the 
patient and the patient's family shall be explained to them. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1069>>>
 
1069 
  
Rule 52.12.10 Sufficient information shall be collected during the intake process to develop a 
preliminary treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.12.11 Staff members who will be working with the patient but who did not participate in 
the initial assessment shall be informed about the patient prior to meeting him or 
her. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 13 ASSESSMENTS 
Rule 52.13.1 Within 72 hours of admission, the staff shall conduct a complete assessment of 
each patient's needs. The assessment shall include, but shall not necessarily be 
limited to, physical, emotional, behavioral, social, recreational, and nutritional 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.2 A licensed physician shall be responsible for assessing each patient's physical 
health. The health assessment shall include a medical, alcohol and drug history; a 
physical examination; neurological examination when indicated and a laboratory 
workup. The physical examination shall be completed, within 24 hours after 
admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.3 In facilities serving children and adolescents, each patient's physical health 
assessment shall also include evaluations of the following: motor development 
and functioning; sensorimotor functioning; speech, hearing, and language 
functioning; visual functioning; and immunization status. Facilities serving 
children and adolescents shall have all necessary diagnostic tools and personnel 
available to perform physical health assessments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.4 A registered nurse shall be responsible for obtaining a nursing history and 
assessment at the time of admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.5 An emotional and behavioral assessment of each patient shall be completed and 
entered in the patient's record. The assessment shall include, but not be limited to, 
the following items: 
1. a history of previous emotional and behavioral functioning; 
<<<PAGE 1070>>>
 
1070 
  
2. the patient's current emotional and behavioral functioning; 
3. when indicated, a direct psychiatric evaluation; and 
4. when indicated, psychological assessments, including intellectual and personality 
testing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.6 A social assessment of each patient shall be completed by the qualified social 
worker and entered in the patient's record. The assessment shall include 
information relating to the following areas, as necessary: 
1. environment and home; 
2. religion; 
3. childhood history; 
4. military service history; 
5. financial status; 
6. the social, peer-group, and environment setting from which the patient comes; and 
7. the patient's family circumstances, including the constellation of the family group, 
the current living situation; and social, ethnic, cultural, emotional, and health 
factors, including drug and alcohol use. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.7 When appropriate, an activities assessment of each patient shall be completed by 
the qualified activity director and shall include information relating to the 
individual's current skills, talents, aptitudes, and interest. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.13.8 A nutritional assessment shall be conducted by the food service supervisor or 
registered dietitian and shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 14 TREATMENT PLANS 
Rule 52.14.1 Each patient shall have a written individual treatment plan that is based on 
assessments of his or her clinical needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1071>>>
 
1071 
  
Rule 52.14.2 Overall development and implementation of the treatment plan shall be assigned 
to an appropriate member of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.3 The treatment plan shall be developed as soon as possible after the patient's 
admission. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.4 Appropriate therapeutic efforts may begin before a fully developed treatment plan 
is finalized. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.5 Upon admission, a prelimary treatment plan shall be formulated on the basis of 
the intake assessment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.6 Within 72 hours following admission a designated member of the treatment team 
shall develop an initial treatment plan that is based on at least an assessment of 
the patient's presenting problems, physical health, emotional status, and 
behavioral status. This initial treatment plan shall be utilized to implement 
immediate treatment objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.7 If a patient's stay in a facility is ten days or less, only a discharge summary will be 
required in addition to be initial treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.8 If a patient's stay in a facility exceeds ten days, the interdisciplinary team shall 
develop a master treatment plan that is based on a comprehensive assessment of 
the patient's needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.9 The master treatment plan shall contain objectives and methods for achieving 
them. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.10 The treatment plan shall reflect the facility's philosophy of treatment and the 
participation of staff from appropriate disciplines. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1072>>>
 
1072 
  
Rule 52.14.11 The treatment plan shall reflect consideration of the patient's clinical needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.12 The treatment plan shall specify the services necessary to meet the patient's needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.13 The treatment plan shall include referrals for needed services that are not provided 
directly by the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.14 The treatment plan shall contain specific goals that the patient must achieve to 
attain, maintain, and/or reestablish emotional and/or physical health as well as 
maximum growth and adaptive capabilities. These goals shall be based on 
assessments of the patient and, as appropriate, the patient's family. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.15 The treatment plan shall contain specific objectives that related to the goals, are 
written in measureable terms, and include expected achievements dates. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.16 The treatment plan shall describe the services, activities, and programs planned 
for the patient, and shall specify the staff members assigned to work with the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.17 The treatment plan shall specify the frequency of treatment procedures. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.18 The treatment plan shall delineate the specific criteria to be met for termination of 
treatment. Such criteria shall be a part of the initial treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.19 When appropriate, the patient shall participate in the development of his or her 
treatment plan, and such participation shall be documented in the patient's record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.14.20 A specific plan for involving the family or significant others shall be included in 
the treatment plan when indicated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1073>>>
 
1073 
  
Subchapter 15 PROGRESS NOTES 
Rule 52.15.1 Progress notes shall be recorded by the physician, nurse, social worker and, when 
appropriate, others significantly involved in treatment. The frequency of progress 
notes is determined by the condition of the patient but should be recorded at least 
weekly for the first two (2) months and at least monthly thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.15.2 Progress notes shall be entered in the patient's record and shall include the 
following: 
1. documentation of implementation of the treatment plan; 
2. documentation of all treatment rendered to the patient; 
3. description of change in the patient's condition; and 
4. descriptions of the response of the patient to treatment, the outcome of treatment, 
and the response of significant others to important intercurrent events. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.15.3 Progress notes shall be dated and signed by the individual making the entry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.15.4 All entries involving subjective interpretation of the patient's progress should be 
supplemented with a description of the actual behavior observed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 16 TREATMENT PLAN REVIEW 
Rule 52.16.1 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be regularly conducted to review and 
evaluate each patient's treatment plan and his or her progress in attaining the 
stated treatment goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.16.2 Interdisciplinary case conferences shall be documented, and the results of the 
review and evaluation shall be recorded in the patient's record. The review and 
update shall be completed no later than thirty (30) days following the first 10-days 
of treatment and at least every sixty (60) days thereafter. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 17 DISCHARGE PLANNING/AFTERCARE 
<<<PAGE 1074>>>
 
1074 
  
Rule 52.17.1 The facility maintains a centralized coordinated program to ensure that each 
patient has a planned program of continuing care which meets his post discharge 
needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.2 Each patient shall have an individualized discharge plan which reflects input from 
all disciplines involved in his care. The patient, patient's family, and/or significant 
others shall be involved in the discharge planning process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.3 Discharge planning data shall be collected at the time of admission or within 
seven (7) days thereafter. 
The chief executive officer shall delegate the responsibility for discharge planning, in writing, to 
one or more staff members. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.4 The facility shall maintain written discharge planning policies and procedures 
which describe: 
1. how the discharge coordinator will function, and his authority and relationships 
with the facility's staff; 
2. the time period in which each patient's need for discharge planning is determined 
(within seven days after admission); 
3. the maximum time period after which reevaluation of each patient's discharge plan 
is made; 
4. local resources available to the facility and the patient to assist in developing and 
implementing individual discharge plans; and 
5. provisions for periodic review and reevaluation of the facility's discharge planning 
program (at least annually). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.5 An interdisciplinary case conference shall be held prior to the patient's discharge.  
The discharge/aftercare plan shall be reviewed with the patient, patient's family 
and/or significant others. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.6 The facility shall have documentation that the aftercare plan has been 
implemented and shall have documentation of follow-ups to assure referrals to 
appropriate community agencies. 
<<<PAGE 1075>>>
 
1075 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.17.7 Discharge Summary:   A discharge summary shall be entered in the patient's 
record within fourteen (14) days following discharge. The discharge summary 
shall include but not be limited to: 
1. reason for admission; 
2. brief summary of treatment; 
3. reason for discharge; 
4. assessment of treatment plan goals and objectives; and 
5. recommendations and arrangements for further treatment, including prescribed 
medications and aftercare. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 18 SUPPORT SERVICES:  PHARMACY 
Rule 52.18.1 Direction and Supervision. The hospital shall have a pharmacy directed by a 
registered pharmacist, who has had, by education or experience, training in the 
specialized area of hospital pharmacy. The pharmacy or drug room shall be 
administered in accordance with accepted professional principles. The pharmacist 
shall be assisted, as needed, by additional qualified pharmacists and ancillary 
personnel. Pharmacy assistants shall work under the supervision of a pharmacist 
and shall not be assigned duties that are required to be performed only by 
registered pharmacists. 
Provision shall be made for emergency pharmaceutical services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.2 Records. Records shall be kept of the transactions of the pharmacy (or drug 
room) and correlated with other hospital records where indicated. Such special 
records shall be kept as required by law. The pharmacy shall establish and 
maintain a satisfactory system of records and accountability in accordance with 
the policies of the hospital for maintaining adequate control over the 
requisitioning and dispensing of all drugs and pharmaceutical supplies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.3 A record of the stock on hand and of the dispensing of all narcotic drugs shall be 
maintained in such a manner that the disposition of any particular item may be 
readily traced. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1076>>>
 
1076 
  
Rule 52.18.4 The label of each outpatient's individual prescription medication container shall 
bear the lot and control number of the drug, the name of the manufacturer (or 
trademark) and, unless the physician directs otherwise, the name of the 
medication dispensed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.5 Control of Toxic or Dangerous Drugs. Policies shall be established to control 
the administration of toxic or dangerous drugs with specific reference to the 
duration of the order and the dosage. The facility shall establish a written policy 
that all toxic or dangerous medications, not specifically prescribed as to time or 
number of doses, shall be automatically stopped after a reasonable time limit. The 
classification ordinarily thought of as toxic, dangerous or abuse drugs shall be 
narcotics, sedatives, anticoagulants, antibiotics, oxytocics and cortisone products, 
and shall include other categories so established by federal, state or local laws. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.6 Drugs to be Dispensed. The pharmacist, with the advice and guidance or the 
pharmacy and therapeutics committee, shall be responsible for specifications as to 
quality, quantity, and source of supply of all drugs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.7 There shall be available a formulary or list of drugs accepted for use in the facility 
which is developed and amended at regular intervals by the pharmacy and 
therapeutics committee (or equivalent committee) with the cooperation of the 
pharmacist and the administration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.8 The pharmacy or drug room shall be adequately supplied with preparations as 
approved. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.9 Committee. There shall be a pharmacy and therapeutics committee (or equivalent 
committee) composed of physicians and pharmacists, and registered professional 
nurses established in the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.10 It shall represent the organizational line of communication and the liaison 
between the professional staff and the pharmacist. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1077>>>
 
1077 
  
Rule 52.18.11 The committee shall assist in the formulation of board professional policies 
regarding the evaluation, appraisal, selection, procurement, storage, distribution, 
use, and safety procedures, and all other matters relating to drugs in hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.12 The committee shall perform the following specific functions: 
1. serve as an advisory group to the professional staff and the pharmacist on matters 
pertaining to the choice of drugs; 
2. develop and review periodically a formulary or drug list for use in the facility; 
3. establish standards concerning the use and control of investigational drugs and 
research in the use of recognized drugs; 
4. evaluate clinical data concerning new drugs or preparations requested for use in the 
facility; 
5. make recommendations concerning drugs to be stocked on the nursing unit floors 
and by other services; and 
6. prevent unnecessary duplication in stocking drugs and drugs in combination having 
identical amounts of the same therapeutic ingredients. 
7. The committee shall meet at least quarterly and report to the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.13 Medication Control. The facility shall have written policies and procedures 
designed to ensure that all medications are dispensed and administered safely and 
properly in accordance with the applicable federal, state, and local laws and 
regulations. 
1. Medication orders shall be written only by authorized prescribers. 
2. An up-to-date list of authorized prescribers shall be available in all areas where 
medication is dispensed. 
3. Telephone orders shall be accepted only from individuals on the list of authorized 
prescribers. 
4. Telephone orders shall be limited to emergency situations that have been defined in 
writing in the facility's policies and procedures manual. 
5. Telephone orders shall be accepted and written in the patient's record only by staff 
authorized to administer medication. 
<<<PAGE 1078>>>
 
1078 
  
6. Telephone orders shall be signed by an authorized prescriber on the next regular 
working day, but in all events within 72 hours. 
7. A written order signed by the authorized prescriber shall be included in patient's 
record. 
8. Medication orders that contain abbreviations and chemical symbols shall be carried 
out only if the abbreviations and symbols are on a standard list approved by the 
physician members of the professional staff. 
9. There shall be automatic stop orders on specified medications. Refer to Rule 
52.18.5. 
10. There shall be a specific routine of drug administration, indicating dose schedules 
and standardization of abbreviations. 
11. Only pharmacists, physicians, registered nurses, or licensed practical nurses shall 
administer medications. 
12. Self-administration of medication shall be permitted only when specifically 
ordered by the responsible physician. 
13. Drugs brought into the facility by patients shall not be administered unless they 
can be absolutely identified, and unless written orders to administer these specific 
drugs are given by the responsible physician. If the drugs that the patient brings to 
the facility are not to be used, they shall be packaged, sealed, and stored, and, if 
approved by the responsible physician, they shall be returned to the patient, 
family, or significant others at the time of discharge. 
14. The patient and, when appropriate, the family shall be instructed about which 
medications if any, are to be administered at home. 
15. Medications administered, medication errors, and adverse drug reactions shall be 
documented in the patient's record. 
16. Facilities should implement a reporting system under which the reporting program 
of the federal Food and Drug Administration and the drug manufacturer are 
advised of unexpected adverse drug reactions. 
17. There shall be methods of detecting drug side effects of toxic reactions. 
18. Investigational drugs shall be used only under the direct supervision of the 
principal investigator and with the approval of research review committee and 
either the physician members of the professional staff or an appropriate 
committee of the professional staff. 
<<<PAGE 1079>>>
 
1079 
  
19. A central unit shall be established where essential information on investigational 
drugs, such as dosage form, dosage range, storage requirements, adverse 
reactions, usage, and contraindications, is maintained. 
20. Investigational drugs shall be properly labeled. 
21. Nurses may administer investigational drugs only after receiving basic 
pharmacologic information about the drugs. 
22. The facility shall have specific methods for controlling and accounting for drug 
products. 
23. The pharmacy service shall maintain records of its transactions as required by law 
and as necessary to maintain adequate control of, and accountability for, all drugs. 
24. These records shall document all supplies issued to units, departments, or services 
of the facility, as well as all prescription drugs dispensed. 
25. Records and inventories of the drugs listed in the current Comprehensive Drug 
Abuse Prevention and Control Act shall be maintained as required by the act and 
regulations. 
26. Distribution and administration of controlled drugs are adequately documented, 
and inspections of these records by the pharmacist is documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.14 Emergency Medication Kit. There is an emergency kit that is: 
1. made up under the supervision and responsibility of the pharmacist, and is 
approved by the Pharmacy and Therapeutic Committee; 
2. readily available to staff yet not accessible to patients; 
3. constituted so as to be appropriate to the needs of the patients; and 
4. inspected monthly to remove deteriorated and outdated drugs and to ensure 
completeness of content. 
SOURCE Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.15 The pharmacist responsible for the emergency kit shall provide a list of its 
contents and appropriate instructions, and shall authenticate this list with his 
signature. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.16 Storage of Drugs. Drug storage shall be maintained in accordance with the 
security requirements of federal, state, and local laws. Drugs preparation areas 
<<<PAGE 1080>>>
 
1080 
  
and drug storage area shall be well-lighted and shall be so located that personnel 
will not be interrupted when handling drugs. All drugs shall be kept in locked 
storage. 
1. Poisons, external drugs, and internal drugs shall be stored on separate shelves or in 
separate cabinets. 
2. Medications that are stored in a refrigerator containing items other than drugs shall 
be kept in a separate compartment or container with proper security. 
3. Antidote charts and the telephone number of the regional poison control center 
shall be kept in all drug storage and preparation areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.17 Space for Storage of Drugs. Adequate space shall be provided in the Pharmacy 
for storage of drugs and for keeping of necessary records. The pharmacy shall be 
capable of being securely locked in accordance with regulations regarding storage 
of dangerous drugs. Adequate space is defined on a minimum of 250 sq. ft. for 50 
beds or less; 500 sq. ft. of storage for 75 beds or less; 750 sq. ft. for 100 beds or 
less; and 1000 sq. ft. for 100 beds or more. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.18 Quality Assurance Activities. A pharmacist shall regularly review the 
medication records of patients.  
1. All medication orders shall be reviewed monthly by the responsible physician.  
Adverse drug reactions and medication errors shall be reported to the physician 
responsible for the patient, and shall be documented in the patient's record.  
2. The pharmacist in charge of dispensing medications, shall provide for monthly 
inspection of all storage units, including emergency boxes and emergency carts. 
3. A record of these inspections shall be maintained in order to verify the following:  
4. Disinfectants and drugs for external use are stored separately from internal and 
injectable medications. 
5. Drugs requiring special conditions for storage to ensure stability are properly 
stored. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.19 Continuing Education. The director of the pharmacy service shall receive 
orientation in the specialized functions of the facility. 
<<<PAGE 1081>>>
 
1081 
  
1. A pharmacist should participate in staff development programs for the clinical 
staff. 
2. As appropriate, a pharmacist should participate in drug abuse education programs 
conducted by the facility. 
3. As appropriate, a pharmacist should participate in public education and information 
programs relative to the services of the facility. 
4. Up-to-date pharmaceutical reference material shall be provided so that appropriate 
staff will have adequate information concerning drugs. 
5. Current editions of text and reference books covering the following topics shall be 
provided: theoretical and practical pharmacy; general, organic, pharmaceutical, 
and biological chemistry; toxicology; pharmacology; bacteriology; sterilization 
and disinfection; and other subjects important to good patient card. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.18.20 Functional Safety and Sanitation. Adequate precautions shall be taken to store 
medications under proper conditions of sanitation, temperature, light, moisture, 
ventilation, segregation, and security. 
1. All drugs shall be kept in locked storage. 
2. Security shall be maintained in accordance with local and state laws. 
3. Poisons, external drugs, and internal drugs shall be stored on separate shelves or in 
separate containers. 
4. Drug preparation and storage areas shall be well-lighted and shall be located where 
personnel will not be interrupted when handling drugs. 
5. Metric-apothecaries' weight and measure conversion charts shall be posted in each 
drug preparation area and wherever else they are needed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 19 DIETARY 
Rule 52.19.1 Organization. The facility shall have an organized dietary department directed by 
a qualified food service supervisor, with services of a registered dietitian on at 
least a consultant basis. However, a facility which has a contract with an outside 
food management company may be found to meet this requirement if the 
company has a therapeutic dietitian who serves, as required by scope and 
complexity of the services, on a full-time, part-time, or consultant basis to the 
facility. 
<<<PAGE 1082>>>
 
1082 
  
1. The qualified dietitian shall be registered or eligible for registration by the 
Commission on Dietetic Registration. 
2. When a qualified dietitian is employed on a part-time or consultative basis, the 
dietitian shall devote enough time to accomplish the following tasks: 
a. Assure continuity of services; 
b. Direct the nutritional aspects of patient care; 
c. Assure that dietetic instructions are carried out; 
d. On occasion, supervise the serving of meals; and 
e. Assist in the evaluation of the dietetic services. 
3. Regular written reports shall be submitted to the chief executive officer on the 
extent of services provided by the dietitian. 
4. There shall be written policies and procedures for food storage, preparation, and 
service developed by a registered dietitian. 
5. The dietetic service shall have an adequate number of appropriately qualified 
individuals to meet the dietetic needs of the facility's patients. 
6. Written job descriptions of all dietary employees shall be available. 
7. There shall be procedures to control dietary employees with infectious and open 
lesions. Routine health examinations shall meet local and state codes for food 
service personnel. 
8. There shall be an on-going planned in-service training program for dietary 
employees which includes the proper handling of food and personal grooming, 
safety, sanitation, behavioral and therapeutic needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.19.2 Facilities. Adequate space, equipment, ventilation and supplies as well as any 
necessary written procedure and precautions, shall be provided for the safe and 
sanitary operation of the dietetic service and the safe and sanitary handling and 
distribution of food. 
1. The food service area should be appropriately located. 
2. The dietitian's office should be easily accessible to all who require consultation 
services. 
3. Sufficient space shall be provided for support personnel to perform their duties. 
<<<PAGE 1083>>>
 
1083 
  
4. The layout of the department and the type amount, size, and placement of 
equipment shall make possible the efficient preparation and distribution of food. 
5. Lavatories with wrist action blades, soap dispenser and disposable towel dispenser 
shall be located throughout the dietary department. 
6. Dry or staple food items shall be stored in a ventilation room which is not subject 
to sewage or waste water back flow, or contamination by condensation, leakage, 
rodents or vermin. 
7. All perishable foods shall be refrigerated at the appropriate temperature and in an 
orderly and sanitary manner. Each refrigerator shall contain a thermometer in 
good working order. 
8. Foods being displayed or transported shall be protected from contamination. 
9. Dishwashing procedures and techniques shall be developed and carried out in 
compliance with the state and local health codes. 
10. All garbage and kitchen refuse which is not disposed of mechanically shall be 
kept in leak-proof non-absorbent containers with close fitting covers and be 
disposed of routinely in a manner that will not permit transmission of disease, a 
nuisance, or a breeding place for files. All garbage containers are to be thoroughly 
cleaned inside and outside each time emptied. 
11. All dietary areas, equipment, walls, floors, etc., shall be kept maintained in good 
working condition and sanitary at all times. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.19.3 Diets. There shall be systematic record of diets, correlated when appropriate, with 
the medical records. The dietitian shall have available an up-to-date manual of 
regimens for all therapeutic diets, approved jointly by the dietitian and medical 
staff, which is available to dietary supervisory personnel. Diets serve to patients 
shall be in compliance with these established diet principles. 
1. The diet manual shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by a qualified 
dietitian, and shall be dated to identify the time of the review. 
2. Revisions to the diet manual shall be approved by the facility's physician. 
3. The diet manual should be used to standardize the ordering of diets. 
4. The policies and procedures shall provide for dietetic counseling. 
5. The nutritional deficiencies of any diet in the manual shall be indicated. 
<<<PAGE 1084>>>
 
1084 
  
6. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of dietetic orders in the 
patient's record. 
7. The policies and procedures shall require the recording of all observations and 
information pertinent of dietetic treatment in the patient's record by the food 
service supervisor or dietitian. 
8. The policies and procedures shall require the use of standards for nutritional care in 
evaluating the nutritional adequacy of the patient's diet and in ordering diet 
supplements. The current Recommended Dietary Allowances of the Food and 
Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the National Academy of 
Sciences is suggested as a guide in developing these standards. 
9. The policies and procedures shall describe the methods for assuring that each 
patient on a special diet receives the prescribed diet regimen. 
10. The policies and procedures shall provide for altering diets or diet schedules as 
well as for discontinuing diets. 
11. Dietetic service personnel shall conduct periodic food acceptance studies among 
the patients and should encourage them to participate in menu planning. 
12. The results of food acceptance studies should be reflected in revised menus. 
13. All menus shall be approved by a qualified dietitian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.19.4 Food Service and Dining. Food shall be served in an appetizing and attractive 
manner, at planned and realistic mealtimes, and in a congenial and relaxed 
atmosphere. 
1. Dining areas should be attractive and maintained at appropriate temperatures. 
2. The dietetic services shall be patient-oriented and should take into account the 
many factors that contribute to the wide variations in patient eating habits, 
including cultural, religious, and ethnic factors. 
3. Snacks shall be available as appropriate to the nutritional needs of the patients and 
the needs of the facility. 
4. The dietetic service shall be prepared to give extra food to individual patients. 
5. Appropriate food should be available for patients with special or limited dietary 
needs. 
6. There shall be adequate equipment provided for tray assembly and tray delivery. 
<<<PAGE 1085>>>
 
1085 
  
7. Facilities or arrangements shall be available for family and friends to eat with 
patients when possible. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 20 ACTIVITY SERVICES 
Rule 52.20.1 The facility shall provide, or make arrangements for the provision of activity 
services to all patients in accordance with their needs and interests and as 
appropriate within the scope of the facility's program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.2 The facility shall have a written plan that describes the organization of their 
activity services or the arrangements made for the provision of activity services. 
The activity services shall have a well-organized plan for using community 
resources. The goals and objectives of the facility's activity services shall be 
stated in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.3 The facility shall have written policies and procedures for the activity services 
which are made available to activity services and other appropriate personnel.  
The policies and procedures shall be reviewed and revised at least annually. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.4 Appropriate activities shall be provided to all patients during the day, in the 
evening, and on weekends. The daily activities program shall be planned to 
provide a consistent and well-structured yet flexible framework for daily living. 
Whenever possible, patients should participate in planning activity services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.5 Activity schedules shall be posted in places accessible to patients and staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.6 The activities program shall be reviewed and revised according to the changing 
needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.7 When indicated, activity services shall be incorporated in the patient's treatment 
plan. Activity services that are included in a patient's treatment plan shall reflect 
an assessment of the patient's needs, interests, life experiences, capacities, and 
deficiencies. Activity services staff shall collaborate with other professional staff 
<<<PAGE 1086>>>
 
1086 
  
in delineating goals for patients' treatment, health maintenance, and vocational 
adjustments. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.8 The patient's record shall contain progress notes that describe the patient's 
response to activity services and other pertinent observations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.9 There shall be documentation that patients are given leisure time and that they are 
encouraged to use their leisure time in a way that fulfills their cultural and 
recreational interests and their feelings of human dignity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.10 Vehicles used for transportation shall not be labeled in a manner that calls 
unnecessary attention to the patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.11 Quality Assurance Activities. The activity service shall have written procedures 
for ongoing review and revision of its goals, objectives, and role within the 
family.  The activity service shall maintain statistical and other records on the 
functioning and utilization of the services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.12 Continuing Education. The facility shall maintain ongoing staff development 
programs.  
1. Activity service staff shall participate in appropriate clinical and administrative 
committees and conferences. 
2. Activity service staff shall receive training and demonstrate competence in 
handling medical and psychiatric emergencies.   
3. The activity service shall encourage extramural studies and evaluations of activity 
services and extramural research in activity services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.20.13 Functional Safety and Sanitation. Appropriate space, equipment, and facilities 
shall be provided to meet the needs of patients for activity services: 
1. Facilities and equipment designated for activity services shall be constructed or 
modified in such a manner as to provide, insofar as possible, pleasant and 
functional areas that are accessible to all patients regardless of their disabilities. 
<<<PAGE 1087>>>
 
1087 
  
2. Space for offices, storage, and supplies shall be adequate and accessible. 
3. When indicated, equipment and supplies that enable the activity to be brought to 
the patient should be used. 
4. Space, equipment and facilities utilized both inside and outside the facility shall 
meet federal, state, and local requirements for safe fire prevention, health and 
sanitation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 21 REFERRALS 
Rule 52.21.1 The facility shall have written policies and procedures that facilitate the referral of 
patients and the provision of consultation between the facility's program 
components and between the facility and other service providers in the 
community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.2 The written policies and procedures shall describe the methods by which 
continuity of care is assured for the patient. These methods shall include, but not 
be limited to, providing the facility, program component, or other service provider 
to which the patient is referred with the following: 
1. background information on the referral; 
2. information on the patient's treatment, for example, current treatment, diagnostic 
assessments, and special requirements; 
3. treatment objectives desired; 
4. suggestions for continued coordination between the referring and the receiving 
resource; 
5. special clinical management requirements; and 
6. information on how the patient can be returned to the referring facility or program 
component. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.3 The referring facility shall ask the receiving facility, program component, or other 
service provider to which the patient is referred, to submit a follow-up report 
within a designated time period. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1088>>>
 
1088 
  
Rule 52.21.4 The written policies and procedures shall describe the mechanism by which a 
patient may be referred. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.5 The written policies and procedures shall describe the means by which the facility 
assists in the referral of individuals who are seeking services that the facility does 
not provide. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.6 The written policies and procedures shall be reviewed and approved annually by 
the director and appropriate administrative and professional staff members. The 
annual review and approval shall be documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.7 Each community service provider to which patients are referred shall express in 
writing its willingness to abide by federal and state standards concerning 
confidentiality of patient information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.21.8 The facility shall have a letter of agreement and/or contract with community 
service providers that it uses repeatedly. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 22 LABORATORY AND RADIOLOGIC SERVICES 
Rule 52.22.1 The facility shall have provisions for promptly obtaining required laboratory, x-
ray, and other diagnostic services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.22.2 If the facility provides its own laboratory and x-ray services, these shall meet the 
applicable standards established for hospital censure. Refer to Subchapter 21, 
Subchapters 57-61 & Rule 41.71.3 of the Minimum Standards of Operation for 
Mississippi Hospitals. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.22.3 If the facility itself does not provide such services, arrangements shall be made for 
obtaining these services from a licensed and certified laboratory. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.22.4 All laboratory and x-ray services shall be provided only on the orders of the 
attending physician. 
<<<PAGE 1089>>>
 
1089 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.22.5 The facility shall assist the patient, if necessary, in arranging for transportation to 
and from the source of service. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.22.6 All signed and dated reports of laboratory, x-ray, and other diagnostic services 
shall be filed with the patient's medical record. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 23 LIBRARY SERVICES 
Rule 52.23.1 Library services shall be made available to meet the professional and technical 
needs of the facility's staff. 
1. Facilities that do not maintain a professional library shall have an arrangement with 
a nearby facility or institution to use its professional library.  
2. Current reference material, books, and basic health care journals shall be available 
in each facility. 
3. The library service shall establish regular and convenient hours of service so that 
staff may have prompt access to current materials. 
4. When a facility operates its own library, the professional library service shall 
provide pertinent, current and useful medical, psychiatric, psychological, alcohol, 
drug, educational, and related materials. A facility providing extensive library 
services should utilize the services of a professional librarian. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 24 EMERGENCY SERVICES 
Rule 52.24.1 The facility shall have written procedures for taking care of emergencies. 
Emergency services shall be provided by the facility or through clearly defined 
arrangements with another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.24.2 When emergency services are provided by an outside facility, a written plan shall 
delineate the type of emergency services available and the arrangements for 
referring or transferring patients to another facility. The written plan shall be 
available to all professional staff and shall clearly specify the following: 
1. The staff of the facility who are available and authorized to provide necessary 
emergency evaluations; 
<<<PAGE 1090>>>
 
1090 
  
2. The staff of the facility who are authorized to arrange for patients to be referred or 
transferred to another facility when necessary; 
3. The arrangements the facility has made for exchanging records with the outside 
facility when it is necessary for the care of the patient; 
4. The location of the outside facility and the names of the appropriate personnel to 
contact; 
5. The method of communication between the two facilities; 
6. The arrangements the facility has made to assure that when a patient requiring 
emergency care is transferred to a non-psychiatric or substance abuse service or 
facility, he or she will receive further evaluation and/or treatment of his or her 
psychiatric or substance abuse program, as needed; 
7. The arrangements the facility has made for transporting patients, when necessary, 
from the facility to the facility providing emergency services; 
8. The policy for referring patients needing continued care after emergency services 
back to the referring facility; and 
9. Policies concerning notification of the patient's family of emergencies and of 
arrangements that have been made for referring or transferring that patient to 
another facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.24.3 When an emergency service is provided by the facility, the service shall be well 
organized, properly directed, and integrated with other services of the facility and 
shall comply with Chapter 41, Subchapters 25-26 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 25 PHYSICAL PLANT MANAGEMENT:  INFECTION CONTROL 
Rule 52.25.1 Because infections acquired in a facility or brought into a facility from the 
community are potential hazards for all persons having contact with the facility, 
there shall be an infection control program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.25.2 Effective measures shall be developed to prevent, identify and control infections. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.25.3 Written policies and procedures pertaining to the operation of the infection 
control program shall be established, reviewed at least annually, and revised as 
necessary. 
<<<PAGE 1091>>>
 
1091 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.25.4 A practical system shall be developed for reporting, evaluating, and maintaining 
records of infections among patients and personnel. This system shall include 
assignment of responsibility for the ongoing collection and analysis of data, as 
well as for the implementation of required follow-up action. Corrective action 
taken on the basis of records and reports of infections and infection potentials 
among patients and personnel shall be documented. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.25.5 All new employees shall be instructed in the importance of infection control and 
personal hygiene, and in their responsibility in the infection control program. 
There shall be documentation that inservice education-in infection prevention and 
control is provided to employees in all services and program components. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 26 REGULATED MEDICAL WASTE 
Rule 52.26.1 "Infectious medical wastes" includes solid or liquid wastes which may contain 
pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity such that exposure to the waste 
by a susceptible host has been proven to result in an infectious disease. For 
purposes of this Regulation, the following wastes shall be considered to be 
infectious medical wastes: 
1. Wastes resulting from the care of patients and animals who have Class I and (or) II 
diseases that are transmitted by blood and body fluid as defined in the rules and 
regulations governing reportable diseases. (See attached) as defined by the 
Mississippi Department of Health; 
2. Cultures and stocks of infectious agents; including specimen cultures collected 
from medical and pathological laboratories, cultures and stocks of infectious 
agents from research and industrial laboratories, wastes from the production of 
biologicals, discarded live and attenuated vaccines, and culture dishes and devices 
used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures; 
3. Blood and blood products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components; 
4. Pathological wastes, such as tissues, organs, body parts, and body fluids that are 
removed during surgery and autopsy; 
5. Contaminated carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals that were exposed to 
pathogens in medical research; 
6. All discarded sharps (e.g., hypodermic needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken 
glass, scalpel blades) which have come into contact with infectious agents; 
<<<PAGE 1092>>>
 
1092 
  
7. Other wastes determined infectious by the generator or so classified by the MS 
Department of Health. 
8. `Medical Waste' means all waste generated in direct patient care or in diagnostic or 
research areas that is non-infectious but aesthetically repugnant if found in the 
environment." 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.26.2 Medical Waste Management Plan. All generators of infectious medical waste 
and medical waste shall have a medical waste management plan that shall include, 
but is not limited to, the following: 
1. Storage and Containment of Infectious Medical Waste and Medical Waste 
a. Containment of infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be in a manner 
and location which affords protection from animals, rain and wind, does not 
provide a breeding place or a food source for insects and rodents, and minimizes 
exposure to the public. 
b. Infectious medical waste shall be segregated from other waste at the point of 
origin in the producing facility. 
c. Unless approved by the Mississippi Department of Health or treated and 
rendered non-infectious. Infectious medical waste (except for sharps in approved 
containers) shall not be stored at a waste producing facility for more than seven 
days above a temperature of 6 C (38F). Containment of infectious medical waste 
at the producing facility is permitted at or below a temperature of O C (32F) for 
a period of not more than 90 days without specific approval of the Department 
of Health. 
d. Containment of infectious medical waste shall be separate from other wastes. 
Enclosures or containers used for containment of infectious medical waste shall 
be so secured so as to discourage access by unauthorized persons and shall be 
marked with prominent warning sings on, or adjacent to, the exterior of entry 
doors, gates, or lids. Each container shall be prominently labeled with a sign 
using language to be determined by the Department and legible during daylight 
hours. 
e. Infectious medical waste, except for sharps capable of puncturing or cutting, 
shall be contained in double disposable plastic bags or single bags (1.5 mills 
thick) which are impervious to moisture and have a strength sufficient to 
preclude ripping, tearing, or bursting under normal conditions of usage. The 
bags shall be securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or 
liquid wasted during storage, handling, or transport. 
<<<PAGE 1093>>>
 
1093 
  
f. All sharps shall be contained for disposal in leak-proof, rigid, puncture resistant 
containers which are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of the 
contents. 
g. All bags used for containment and disposal of infectious medical waste shall be 
of a distinctive color or display the Universal Symbol for infectious waste. Rigid 
containers of all sharps waste shall be labeled. 
h. Compactors or grinders shall not be used to process infectious medical waste 
unless the waste has been rendered non-infectious. Sharps containers shall not 
be subject to compaction by any compacting device except in the institution 
itself and shall not be placed for storage or transport in a portable or mobile 
trash compactor. 
i. Infectious medical waste and medical waste contained in disposable containers 
as prescribed above, shall be placed for storage, handling, or transport in 
disposable or reusable pails, cartons, drums, or portable bins. The containment 
system shall be leak-proof, have tight-fitting covers and be kept clean and in 
good repair. 
j. Reusable containers for infectious medical waste and medical waste shall be 
thoroughly washed and decontaminated each time they are emptied by a method 
specified by the Mississippi Department of Health, unless the surfaces of the 
containers have been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or 
other devices removed with the waste, as outlined in I.E. 
k. Approved methods of decontamination include, but are not limited to, agitation 
to remove visible soil combined with one or more of the following procedures: 
i. Exposure to hot water at least 180 F for a minimum of 15 seconds. 
ii. Exposure to a chemical sanitizer by rinsing with or immersion in one of the 
following for a minimum of 3 minutes: 
a. Hypochlorite solution (500 ppm available chlorine). 
b. Phenolic solution (500 ppm active agent). 
c. Iodoform solution (100 ppm available iodine). 
d. Quaternary ammonium solution (400 ppm active agent). 
b. Reusable pails, drums, or bins used for containment of infectious waste shall 
not be used for containment of waste to be disposed of as noninfectious waste 
or for other purposes except after being decontaminated by procedures as 
described in part (10) of this section. 
i. Trash chutes shall not be used to transfer infectious medical waste. 
<<<PAGE 1094>>>
 
1094 
  
ii. Once treated and rendered non-infectious, previously defined infectious 
medical waste will be classified as medical waste and may be land-filled in 
an approved landfill. 
2. Treatment or disposal of infectious medical waste shall be by one of the 
following methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sterilization by heating in a steam sterilizer, so as to render the waste non-
infectious. Infectious medical waste so rendered non-infectious shall be 
disposable as medical waste. Operating procedures for steam sterilizers shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: 
i. Adoption of standard written operating procedures for each steam sterilizer 
including time, temperature, pressure, type of waste, type of container(s), 
closure on container(s), pattern of loading, water content, and maximum load 
quantity. 
ii. Check or recording and/or indicating thermometers during each complete 
cycle to ensure the attainment of a temperature of 121 C (250 F) for one-half 
hour or longer, depending on quantity and density of the load, in order to 
achieve sterilization of the entire load. Thermometers shall be checked for 
calibration at least annually. 
iii. Use of heat sensitive tape or other device for each container that is processed 
to indicate the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
iv. Use of the biological indicator Bacillus stearothermophilus placed at the 
center of a load processed under standard operating conditions at least 
monthly to confirm the attainment of adequate sterilization conditions. 
v. Maintenance of records of procedures specified in (a), (b), (c) and (d) above 
for period of not less than a year. 
c. By discharge to the approved sewerage system if the waste is liquid or semi-
liquid, except as prohibited by the MS Department of Health. 
d. Recognizable human anatomical remains shall be disposed of by incineration 
or internment, unless burial at an approved landfill is specifically authorized by 
the Mississippi Department of Health. 
e. Chemical sterilization shall use only those chemical sterilants recognized by 
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Pesticides and Toxic 
Substances. Ethylene oxide, glutaraldehyde, and hydrogen peroxide are 
examples of sterilants that, used in accordance with manufacturer 
recommendation, will render infectious waste noninfectious.  Testing with 
<<<PAGE 1095>>>
 
1095 
  
Bacillus subtilis spores or other equivalent organisms shall be conducted 
quarterly to ensure the sterilization effectiveness of gas or steam treatment. 
3. Treatment and disposal of medical waste which is not infectious shall be by 
one of the following methods: 
a. By incineration in an approved incinerator which provides combustion of the 
waste to carbonized or mineralized ash. 
b. By sanitary landfill, in an approved landfill which shall mean a disposal 
facility or part of a facility where medical waste is placed in or on land, and 
which is not a treatment facility. 
4. All the requirements of these standards shall apply, without regard to the quantity 
of medical waste generated per month, to any generator of medical waste. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17
Subchapter 27 THERAPEUTIC ENVIRONMENT  
Rule 52.27.1 The facility shall establish an environment that enhances the positive self-image 
of the patient and preserves human dignity. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.2 Patients shall be allowed to wear their own clothing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.3 Patients shall be allowed to keep and display personal belongings and to add 
personal touches to the decoration of their own room. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.4 Articles for grooming and personal hygiene shall be readily available for the 
individual patient in a space reserved adjacent to his sleeping area. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.5 All areas and surfaces shall be free of undesirable odors. 
SOURCE Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.6 There shall be ample closet and drawer space for the storage of personal property 
provided for the patient's use. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1096>>>
 
1096 
  
Rule 52.27.7 Program personnel shall respect the patient's right to privacy by knocking on the 
door of the patient's room before entering. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.8 A laundry room in which a patient may wash his own clothing shall be accessible. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.9 The services of a barber and a beautician shall be made available at the patient's 
request. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.10 Staff areas should be open to promote patient-personnel interaction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.11 Patients shall be encouraged to take responsibility for maintaining their own 
living quarters. Such responsibilities shall be clearly defines in writing and 
provided to the patient at orientation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.12 The environment shall contribute to the development of therapeutic relationships 
in at least the following ways. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.13 Areas shall be available for a range of social activities for all patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.14  Attractively furnished areas shall be available where a patient can be alone, when 
this would not be in conflict with a therapeutic prescription for group activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.15 Attractively furnished areas shall be provided to ensure privacy for conversations 
with other patients, family, or friends. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.16 The environments shall be designed to allow views of the outdoors. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.17 To promote awareness of the time and season, clocks and calendars should be 
provided at least in the major use areas. 
<<<PAGE 1097>>>
 
1097 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.18 There shall be documentation of planned programs, consistent with the needs of 
the patients, for social, educational and recreational activities for all patients for 
daytime, evenings, and weekends. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.19 The facility shall assure accessibility for handicapped individuals, preferably 
through its physical environment, or as an alternative, through a written plan that 
indicates how the patient or potential patient shall receive necessary services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.27.20 The environment shall be maintained and equipped so as to ensure the health 
safety of the patients. Physical health and safety features of the environment shall 
conform to requirements of local, state, and federal authorities having jurisdiction. 
In any event, the facility shall provide verification of the following: 
1. patients shall be protected against the dangers of fire and smoke. 
2. patients shall be protected against injury attributable to the design and equipment of 
the environment. 
3. patients shall be protected against electrical hazards. 
4. patients shall be protected against spread of disease and infection. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 28 PHYSICAL PLANT CONSTRUCTION REFERENCES  
Rule 52.28.1 The following minimum standards as stated in previous parts are also applicable 
to chemical dependency units: Chapter 41- Physical Plant 
1. Rule 41.8.1 General 
2. Rule 41.8.2 Codes 
3. Subchapter 9 Submission of Plans 
4. Rule 41.9.1 
5. Rule 41.9.2 
6. Rule 41.9.3 
7. Rule 41.9.4 
<<<PAGE 1098>>>
 
1098 
  
8. Rule 41.9.5 
9. Rule 41.9.6 
10. Rule 41.9.7 Environment 
11. Rule 41.9.8 Zoning Restrictions 
12. Rule 41.9.9 Access 
13. Rule 41.9.10 Elements of Construction 
a. Corridors - shall be 60" wide and 7'6" high (clear). The surface of all floors 
and walls shall be washable. All corridors longer than 150' shall be subdivided 
by a smoke barrier and must be maintained free of obstruction. 
b. Doors-all doors in corridors shall be 20-minutes fire rated doors (1-3/4" solid 
core wood door as a minimum). All doors to patient bedrooms, diagnostic and 
treatment areas, and other doors used by residents shall be at least 36" wide. 
No door shall swing into the corridor except closet doors. Doors to hazardous 
areas defined in the Life Safety Code shall be 1-1/2 hour "B" labeled fire 
doors. Exit doors shall conform to the requirements set forth in the Life Safety 
code. 
14. Subchapter 10 Fire Reporting and Protection 
15. Rule 41.10.1 
16. Rule 41.102 
17. Rule 41.10.3Heating and Ventilating 
18. Subchapter 11 Plumbing 
19. Rule 41.11.1 
20. Rule 41.11.2 
21. Rule 41.11.3 
22. Subchapter 12 Sewage Disposal 
23. Rule 41.12.1 
24. Rule 41.12.2 
25. Rule 41.13.2 
<<<PAGE 1099>>>
 
1099 
  
a. Nurses' Call System: A minimum of 10% of the facility bedrooms be equipped 
with a nurses' call system. The rooms that are equipped with nurses' call 
system shall be located adjacent to the nurses' station. 
b. These rooms are generally intended for initial detoxification or special 
treatment. 
26. Subchapter 14 Emergency Electrical Services 
27. Rule 41.14.1 
28. Rule 41.14.2 
29. Emergency Electrical Systems: Emergency electrical service shall be provided in 
accordance with the applicable section of the Life Safety Code. 
30. Rule 41.14.3 
31. Rule 41.14.3(1) 
32. Rule 41.14.3(2) 
33. Rule 41.14.3(3) 
34. Rule 41.14.3(4) 
35. Rule 41.14.4 Finishings: 
a. Bed-each patient room shall be equipped with a quality bed acceptable for this 
environment. 
b. Bedside Cabinet-A bedside cabinet or table shall be provided. 
36. Rule 41.14.5 
37. Rule 41.14.6 Delete (Cubicle Curtains) 
38. Rule 41.14.7 
39. Rule 41.14.8 
40.  A lavatory shall be located in the bedroom or in a private toilet room. 
41. Rule 41.14.9 Service Areas 
42. Rule 41.14.10 Delete (Isolation Room) 
43. Rule 41.14.11 Detention Room 
<<<PAGE 1100>>>
 
1100 
  
44. Subchapter 15 Delete (Special Care) 
45. Subchapter 31 Delete (Newborn Nursery) 
46. Rule 41.15.9 Delete (Pediatric Unit) 
47. Rule 41.16.9 
48. Subchapter 17 Delete (Central Sterile Supply) 
49. Subchapter 19:  Outpatient Area: An outpatient area shall be provided when 
indicated. 
50. Subchapter 20 Radiology Suite (Delete if provided by arrangement) 
51. Subchapter 21 Laboratory (Delete if provided by arrangement) 
52. Subchapter 22 Drug Room-Refer to Subchapters 66-69-Pharmacy Services 
53. Subchapter 23 Dietary 
54. Subchapter 24 Administrative Area 
55. Rule 41.24.2: 
a. Housekeeping Area-to include:  Housekeeper's office or suitable area 
designated for record keeping. 
b. Storage space for maid's carts, if used. 
56. Rule 41.24.3 Laundry: Facilities shall be provided for personal laundry for use by 
patients. This area shall be separated from areas by a one hour fire rated wall. 
57. Rule 41.24.4 General Storage: There shall be a two hour fire rated lockable room 
large enough to provide five square feet of general storage for each bed provided. 
58. Rule 41.24.5 Boiler Room 
59. Rule 41.24.6  Maintenance Area: Sufficient area for performing routine 
maintenance activities shall be provided and shall include an office or suitable 
area designated for record keeping. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.28.2 Add the following sections: 
1. Day Room: At least two general areas for use as living room, day room or 
recreation shall be provided. A minimum of 18 square feet per patient bed shall be 
available for this purpose. 
<<<PAGE 1101>>>
 
1101 
  
2. Dining Room: A minimum of 15 square feet per patient bed shall be provided for 
use as a Dining Room. Adequate tables and chairs shall be provided to seat all 
patients, staff and guests. 
3. Counseling Rooms: At least one, small room shall be provided for each 20 patients 
for the purpose of individual private treatment or counseling. 
4. Examination & Treatment Room: At least one room shall be provided for the 
purpose of examination and treatment. The room shall be equipped with a 
lavatory and towel dispenser, examination table and storage space, with adequate 
lighting. 
5. Group Counseling Rooms: At least two rooms shall be provided large enough to 
accommodate 8-10 patients for the purpose of group counseling sessions. 
6. Subchapter 42 Fire Control and Internal Disaster 
7. Rule 41.46.1  Housekeeping 
8. Rule 41.46.2 
9. Rule 41.46.3 Delete 
10. Rule 41.46.4 
11. Rule 41.46.5 
12. Rule 41.46.6 
13. Rule 41.46.7 
14. Rule 41.46.8 
15. Rule 41.46.9 
16. Subchapter 47 Laundry and Linen 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Subchapter 29 GLOSSARY  
Rule 52.29.1 Activity Director, Qualified. An individual with a bachelor's degree who has at 
least one year of experience in assessing, planning, and coordinating activity 
services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1102>>>
 
1102 
  
Rule 52.29.2 Activity Services. Structured activities designed to develop an individuals 
creative, physical, and social skills through participation in recreational, art, 
dance, drama, social, and other activities. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.3 Administrative. Relates to the fiscal and general management of a facility rather 
than to the direct provision of services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.4 Aftercare. Services that are provided to a patient after discharge and that support 
and increase the gains made during treatment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.5 Assessment. Those procedures by which a person evaluates an individual's 
strengths, weaknesses, problems and needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.6 Authentication. Proof of authority and responsibility by written signature, 
identifiable initials, computer key, or other method. The use of a rubber stamp 
signature is acceptable only under the following conditions: the person whose 
signature the rubber stamp represents is the only one who has possession of the 
stamp and is the only one who uses it, and this person gives the chief executive 
officer a signed statement that he or she is the only one who has the stamp and is 
the only one who will use it. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.7 Authority Having Jurisdiction. The organization, office, or individual 
responsible for approving a piece of equipment, an installation, or a procedure. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.8 Bylaws. The laws, rules, or regulations adopted for the government of the facility. 
Also used for the laws, rules, or regulations of the professional staff. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.9 Chemical Dependency Unit. A hospital or an established and dedicated unit of a 
"general", "psychiatric" or "rehabilitation" hospital, or a "free-standing" unit, 
which has beds that are organized, properly staffed and equipped to render 
services over a continuous period exceeding 24 hours to individuals requiring 
diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and other drug-related dependencies. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1103>>>
 
1103 
  
Rule 52.29.10 Chief Executive Officer. A job-descriptive term used to identify the individual 
appointed by the governing body to act on its behalf in the overall management of 
the facility. Other job titles may include administrator, superintendent, director, 
president, vice-president, and executive vice-president. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.11 Clinical Privileges. Authorization of the governing body to render patient care 
and treatment services in the facility within well-defined limits, based upon the 
individual's professional qualifications, experience, competence, ability, and 
judgment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.12 Consultant. An individual who provides professional advice or services upon 
request. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.13 Contract. A formal agreement with any organization, agency, or individual, 
approved by the governing body, that specifies the services, personnel, and/or 
space to be provided to, or on behalf of, the facility and the monies to be 
expended in exchange. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.14 Counselor. An individual with specialized training. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.15 Department. A staff entity organized on administrative, functional, or 
disciplinary lines. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.16 Detoxification. The systematic reduction of the amount of a toxic agent in the 
body or the elimination of a toxic agent from the body. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.17 Dietetic Services. The provision of services to meet the nutritional needs of 
patients, with specific emphasis on patients who have special dietary needs, for 
example, patients who are allergic to certain foods or who cannot accept a regular 
diet. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.18 Dietitian, Qualified. An individual who is registered by the Commission on 
Dietetic Registration of the American Dietetic Association. 
<<<PAGE 1104>>>
 
1104 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.19 Diet Manual. An up-to-date, organized system for standardizing the ordering of 
diets. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.20 Discharge. The point at which the patient's active involvement with a facility is 
terminated and the facility no longer maintains active responsibility for the 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.21 Drug History. A delineation of the drugs used by a patient, including prescribed 
and unprescribed drugs and alcohol. A drug history includes, but is not 
necessarily limited to, the following: drugs used in the past; drugs used recently, 
especially within the preceding 48 hours; drugs of preference; frequency with 
which each drug is used; route of administration of each drug; drugs used in 
combination; dosages used; year of first use of each drug; previous occurrences of 
overdose, withdrawal, or adverse drug reactions; and history or previous treatment 
received for alcohol or drug abuse. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.22 Emergency Kit. A kit designed to provide the medical supplies and 
pharmaceutical agents required during an emergency. In compiling emergency 
kits, staff should consider the patients' needs for psychotropic, anticholinergic, 
and adrenalin agents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.23 External Disaster. A catastrophe that occurs outside the facility and for which 
the facility, based on its size, and resources must be prepared to serve the 
community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.24 Facility. An organization that provides psychiatric substance abuse, and/or mental 
health services to patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.25 Fiscal Management. Procedures used to control a facility's overall financial and 
general operations. Such procedures may include cost accounting, program 
budgeting, materials purchasing, and patient billing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1105>>>
 
1105 
  
Rule 52.29.26 Formulary. A catalog of the pharmaceuticals approved for use in a facility. A 
formulary lists the names of the drugs and information regarding dosage, 
contraindications, and unit dispensing size. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.27 Goal. An expected result or condition that takes time to achieve, that is specified 
in a statement of relatively broad scope, and that provides guidance in 
establishing intermediate objectives directed towards its attainment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.28 Governing Body. The person or person with ultimate authority and responsibility 
for the overall operation of the facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.29 Guardian. A parent, trustee, committee, conservator, or other person or agency 
empowered by law to act on behalf of, or have responsibility for, an applicant or 
patient. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.30 Hazardous Area. Any area in which the following are used: products that are 
highly combustible, highly flammable, or explosive; or materials that are likely to 
burn with extreme rapidity or produce poisonous fumes or gases. Consult the 
1972 edition of the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) for further clarification. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.31 Hazardous Procedures. Procedures that place the patient at physical or 
psychological risk or in pain. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.32 Incident Reports. Documentation of events or actions that are likely to lead to 
adverse effects and/or that vary from established policies and procedures 
pertaining to patient care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.33 Interdisciplinary Team. A group of clinical staff composed of representative 
from different professions, disciplines, or service areas. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.34 May. Used to reflect an acceptable method of compliance with a standard that is 
recognized but not preferred. See shall and should. 
<<<PAGE 1106>>>
 
1106 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.35 Medical Record Administrator, Qualified. A registered record administrator 
who has successfully passed an appropriate examination conducted by the 
American Medical Record Association. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.36 Medical Record Technician, Qualified. An accredited record technician who 
has successfully passed the appropriate accreditation examination conducted by 
the American Medical Record Association. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.37 NFPA. National Fire Protection Association, 470 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02210. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.38 Nurse. A person licensed and registered to practice nursing in the state in which 
he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.39 Nurse, Practical. A person licensed or registered as a practical or vocational 
nurse in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.40 Objective. An unexpected result or condition that takes less time to achieve than 
a goal, is stated in measurable terms, has a specified time for achievement, and is 
related to the attainment of a goal. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.41 Occupational Therapist, Qualified. An individual who is a graduate of an 
occupational therapy program approved by a nationally recognized accrediting 
body, or who currently holds certification by the American Occupational Therapy 
Association as an occupational therapist, registered, who meets any current legal 
requirements of licensure or registration; and who is currently competent in the 
field. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.42 Parenteral Product. Sterile, pharmaceutical preparations ingested by the body 
through a route other than the alimentary canal. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
<<<PAGE 1107>>>
 
1107 
  
Rule 52.29.43 Patient. An individual who receives treatment services. Patient is synonymous 
with client, resident, consumer, and recipient of treatment services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.44 Personnel Record. The complete employment record of a staff member or an 
employee, including job application, education and employment history, 
performance evaluation, and, when applicable, evidence of current licensure, 
certification, or registration. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.45 Pharmacist. An individual who has a degree in pharmacy and is licensed and 
registered to prepare, preserve, compound, and dispense drugs and chemicals in 
the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.46 Physician, Qualified. A doctor of medicine or doctor of osteopathy who is fully 
licensed to practice medicine in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.47 Program. A general term for an organized system of services designed to address 
the treatment needs of patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.48 Program Evaluation. An assessment component of a facility that determines the 
degree to which a program is meeting its stated goals and objectives. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.49 Psychiatrist, Qualified. A doctor of medicine who specializes in the assessment 
and treatment of individuals having psychiatric disorders and who is fully 
licensed to practice medicine in the state in which he or she practices. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.50 Psychologist, Qualified. An individual licensed by the State Board of 
Psychological Examiners with a specialty area in clinical or counseling 
psychology (refer to Mississippi Code of 1972, annotated and amended. Section 
73-31-1) 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.51 Restraint. A physical or mechanical device used to restrict the movement of the 
whole or a portion of a patient's body. This does not include mechanisms used to 
<<<PAGE 1108>>>
 
1108 
  
assist a patient in obtaining and maintaining normative body functioning, for 
example, braces and wheelchairs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.52 Seclusion. A procedure that isolates the patient to a specific environmental area 
removed from the patient community. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.53 Service. Used to indicate a functional division of a program or of the professional 
staff. Also used to indicate the delivery of care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.54 Shall. Used to indicate a mandatory standard. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.55 Should. Used in a standard to indicate the commonly accepted method of 
compliance. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.56 Social Assessment. The process of evaluating each patient's environment, 
religious background, childhood developmental history, financial status, reasons 
for seeking treatment , and other pertinent information that may contribute to the 
development of the individualized treatment plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.57 Social Worker, Qualified. An individual who is licensed in the State with a 
master's degree from an institution accredited by the Council on Social Work 
Education, and is clinically qualified by training with two years experience in 
working with mentally ill children/adolescents. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.58 Substance Abuse Worker. Professionals representing multiple disciplines who 
have clinical training and/or experience specifically related to providing substance 
abuse services. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
Rule 52.29.59 Therapeutic Activity Services. Goal-oriented activities designed to help an 
individual develop expressive and/or performance skills through participation in 
art, crafts, dance, drama, movement, music, prevocational, recreational, self-care, 
and social activities. 
<<<PAGE 1109>>>
 
1109 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
Rule 52.29.60 Transfer. Movement of a patient from one treatment service or location to 
another. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41-9-17 
 
CHAPTER 53 DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING REGULATIONS 
 
Subchapter 1   AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE. 
 
Rule 53.1.1 The following rules and regulations for drug and alcohol testing of employees and 
job applicants by public and private employers are duly adopted and promulgated 
by the Mississippi State Department of Health pursuant to the authority expressly 
conferred by the laws of the State of Mississippi at Sections 71-7-1, et. al., of the 
Mississippi Code of 1972, Ann., hereinafter referred to as “the Act.” 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
 
Rule 53.1.2 The purpose of these rules and regulations is to promulgate standards and 
guidelines concerning: 
1. Standards for drug and alcohol testing, laboratory certification, suspension and 
revocation of certification; 
2. Body specimens that are appropriate for drug and alcohol testing; 
3. Retention and storage procedures to ensure reliable results on confirmation tests 
and retests; 
4. Initial drug and alcohol tests and confirmation tests; and  
5. Standard language to be included in employer’s drug and alcohol testing notices 
concerning: 
a. A statement advising the employee of the existence of state statutes on employer 
drug and alcohol testing; 
b. A general statement concerning confidentiality; and 
c. Procedures for how employees can confidentially report the use of prescription 
or nonprescription medications prior to being tested. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 2 SCOPE. 
Rule 53.2.1 In the State of Mississippi, every public and private employer who voluntarily 
implements a drug and alcohol testing policy and program, pursuant to the Act, 
<<<PAGE 1110>>>
 
1110 
  
shall do so in accordance with these regulations.  Any person or entity who 
collects specimens for drug and alcohol testing, who conducts initial and/or 
confirmation tests, or who conducts retests on specimens after a positive 
confirmation test, pursuant to the Act, shall do so in accordance with these 
regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 3   DEFINITIONS. 
Rule 53.3.1 Alcohol.  Ethyl alcohol. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.2 The Act.  Sections 71-7-1, et.al., of the Mississippi Code of 1972, Ann. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.3 Board.  The Mississippi Board of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.4 Confirmation Test.  A drug and alcohol test on a specimen to substantiate the 
results of a prior drug and alcohol test on the specimen.  The confirmation test 
must use an alternate method of equal or greater specificity than that used in the 
previous drug and alcohol test. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.5 Department.  The Mississippi State Department of Health.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.6 Drug.  An illegal drug, or a prescription or nonprescription medication. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.7 Drug and Alcohol Test.  A chemical test administered for the purpose of 
determining the presence or absence of a drug or alcohol or their metabolites in a 
person’s bodily fluids.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.8 Employee.  Any person who supplies a service for remuneration or pursuant to 
any contract for hire to a private or public employer in this state. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
<<<PAGE 1111>>>
 
1111 
  
Rule 53.3.9 Employer.  Any individual, organization or government body, subdivision or 
agency thereof, including partnership, association, trustee, estate, corporation, 
joint stock company, insurance company or legal representative, whether 
domestic or foreign, or the receiver, trustee in bankruptcy, trustee or successor 
thereof, and any common carrier by mail, motor, water, air or express company 
doing business in or operating within this state, or which has offered or may offer 
employment to one or more individuals in this state. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.10 Illegal Drugs.  Any substance, other than alcohol, having psychological and/or 
physiological effects on a human being and that is not a prescription or 
nonprescription medication, including controlled dangerous substances and 
controlled substance analogs or volatile substances which produce the 
psychological and/or physiological effects of a controlled dangerous substance 
through deliberate introduction into the body. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.11 Initial Test.  An initial drug or alcohol test to determine the presence or absence 
of drugs or alcohol or their metabolites in specimens. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.12 Laboratory.  Any laboratory that is currently certified or accredited by the 
federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act, as amended, by the federal 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, by the College of 
American Pathologists, or that has been deemed by the State Board of Health to 
have been certified or accredited by an appropriate federal agency, organization or 
another state. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.13 MRO.  Medical Review Officer. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.14 Medical Review Officer.  A licensed physician responsible for receiving 
laboratory results generated by an employer’s drug and/or alcohol testing program 
who has knowledge of substance abuse disorders and has appropriate medical 
training to interpret and evaluate an individual’s positive test result together with 
his or her medical history and any other relevant biomedical information.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.15 Nonprescription Medication.  A drug that is authorized pursuant to federal or state 
laws for general distribution and use without a prescription in the treatment of 
human diseases, ailments, or injuries. 
<<<PAGE 1112>>>
 
1112 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.16 Prescription Medication.  A drug prescribed for use by a duly licensed 
physician, dentist or other medical practitioner licensed to issue prescriptions. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.17 SAMHSA.  Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.3.18 Specimen.  A tissue or product of the human body chemically capable of 
revealing the presence of drugs in the human body. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 4   THE DRUGS. 
Rule 53.4.1 An employer may include in its drug and alcohol testing protocols marijuana, 
cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, phencyclidine, alcohol and other controlled 
substances.  However, if testing for controlled substances other than those 
specifically named above is conducted, testing for such substances can be done 
only if an appropriate federal agency has established an approved protocol and 
positive threshold for each such substance.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.4.2 Specimens collected under Department regulations may only be used to test for 
controlled substances designated for testing as described in this section and shall 
not be used to conduct any other analysis or test unless otherwise specifically 
authorized by Department regulations. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.4.3 This section does not prohibit procedures reasonably incident to analysis of 
specimens for controlled substances (e.g., determination of pH or tests for specific 
gravity, creatinine concentration or presence of adulterants). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 5   BODY SPECIMENS APPROPRIATE FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL 
TESTING. 
Rule 53.5.1 Drugs - Urine for initial and confirmation tests. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.5.2 Alcohol - Breath and/or saliva for initial tests; Blood for confirmation tests. 
<<<PAGE 1113>>>
 
1113 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 6   COLLECTION OF SPECIMENS; INITIAL TESTING AND ANALYSIS 
PROCEDURES. 
Rule 53.6.1 Employers who implement a drug and alcohol testing program pursuant to the Act 
shall contract with manufacturers, vendors, or other providers of drug and alcohol 
testing devices, or with a laboratory, for the purpose of initial drug and alcohol 
testing of employees to: 
1. Train employees of the employer implementing the drug and alcohol testing 
program in the collecting of specimens and the administering of initial tests; or 
2. Provide the employer with personnel to collect specimens and administer the initial 
tests. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.6.2 A specimen for a drug and alcohol test may be taken by any of the following 
persons: 
1. A physician, a registered nurse or a licensed practical nurse; 
2. A qualified person employed by a laboratory; 
3. An employee or an independent contractor of the employer conducting a drug and 
alcohol testing program pursuant to the Act who has been trained in the collecting 
of specimens by a manufacturer, vendor, or other provider of drug and alcohol 
testing devices, or by a laboratory; or  
4. Any person deemed qualified by the State Board of Health. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.6.3 Any initial drug or alcohol test yielding a positive result shall be followed by an 
appropriate confirmation test. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 7   CONFIRMATION TEST - LABORATORY ANALYSIS PROCEDURES 
- REPORTING RESULTS. 
Rule 53.7.1 Employers who implement a drug and alcohol testing program pursuant to the Act 
shall contract with a laboratory to conduct confirmation tests on specimens which 
produce a positive result in testing for drugs or alcohol in the initial. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
<<<PAGE 1114>>>
 
1114 
  
Rule 53.7.2 Laboratories, as certified or accredited as defined herein, which conduct 
confirmation drug and alcohol tests are required to have the following: 
1. Methods of analysis and procedures to ensure reliable drug and alcohol testing 
results, including standards for initial tests and confirmation tests. 
2. Chain-of-custody procedures to ensure proper identification, labeling and handling 
of specimens being tested, 
3. Retention and storage procedures to ensure reliable results on confirmation tests 
and retests, and 
4. Guidelines on how to establish cut-off detection levels for drugs or their 
metabolites for the purposes of determining a positive test result. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.3 Results of the confirmation test shall be reported by the laboratory to the 
employer’s Medical Review Officer in accordance with the provisions set forth 
herein.  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.4 All employers shall have a Medical Review Officer who shall be responsible for 
receiving and interpreting laboratory results of drug and alcohol tests.  Said MRO 
shall be the sole person authorized to review the results of such tests. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.5 The laboratory shall report confirmation test results to the employer’s Medical 
Review Officer within an average of five (5) working days after receipt of the 
specimen by the laboratory.  The report shall identify the drugs/metabolites tested 
for, whether positive or negative, the specimen number assigned by the employer, 
and the laboratory specimen identification number (accession number). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.6 The laboratory shall report as negative all specimens that are negative on the 
initial test or negative on the confirmation test.  Only specimens confirmed 
positive shall be reported positive for a specific drug or alcohol. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.7 The laboratory shall send only to the Medical Review Officer the drug or alcohol 
testing results which, in the case of a report positive for drug or alcohol use, shall 
be signed by the individual responsible for day-to-day management of the 
laboratory or the individual responsible for attesting to the validity of the test 
reports. 
<<<PAGE 1115>>>
 
1115 
  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.8 Unless otherwise instructed by the employer in writing, all records pertaining to a 
given urine or blood specimen shall be retained by the drug testing laboratory for 
a minimum of 2 years. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Rule 53.7.9 Laboratories will preserve positive specimens in such a manner as to ensure that 
said specimens will be available for any necessary retests in accordance with the 
Act. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 8       LABORATORY CERTIFICATION, SUSPENSION AND 
REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION. 
Rule 53.8.1 A laboratory, as defined herein, is such a facility that is currently certified or 
accredited by the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act, as amended, by 
the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, by the 
College of American Pathologists, or that has been deemed by the State Board of 
Health to have been certified or accredited by an appropriate federal agency, 
organization or another state.  Suspension and/or revocation of its standing as a 
laboratory by its certifying or accrediting body shall be deemed as suspension 
and/or revocation of its standing as a laboratory for the purposes of drug and 
alcohol testing. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
Subchapter 9   STANDARD LANGUAGE. 
Rule 53.9.1 Any employer in the State of Mississippi who utilizes an employee and/or job 
applicant drug and alcohol testing program, pursuant to the Act, shall in its 
written policy statement and notice to employees include as a part of such written 
policy statement and notice the following wording: 
1. You are hereby advised that (Insert name of employer here) has implemented a 
drug and alcohol policy and conducts a testing program,  pursuant to Sections 71-
7-1, et.al., of the Mississippi Code of 1972, Ann. (hereinafter referred to as “the 
Act”), and you are hereby advised of the existence of said Act. 
2. All information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda and test results, 
written or otherwise, received by (Insert name of employer here) through its 
drug and alcohol testing program are confidential communications and may not 
be used or received in evidence, obtained in discovery, or disclosed in any public 
or private proceedings, except in accordance with the Act and these regulations.  
Any information obtained by (Insert name of employer here) pursuant to the 
Act and these regulations shall be the property of the employer.  (Insert name of 
<<<PAGE 1116>>>
 
1116 
  
employer here) shall not release to any person other than the employee or job 
applicant, or employer medical, supervisory or other personnel, as designated by 
(Insert name of employer here) on a need to know basis, information related to 
drug and alcohol test results unless: (a) The employee or job applicant has 
expressly, in writing, granted permission for (Insert name of employer here) to 
release such information; it is necessary to introduce a positive confirmed test 
result into an arbitration proceeding pursuant to a collective bargaining 
agreement, an administrative hearing under applicable state or local law, or a 
judicial proceeding, provided that information is relevant to the hearing or 
proceeding, or the information must be disclosed to a federal or state agency or 
other unit of the state or United States government as required under law, 
regulation or order, or in accordance with compliance requirements of a state or 
federal government contract, or disclosed to a drug abuse rehabilitation program 
for the purpose of evaluation or treatment of an employee; or there is a risk to 
public health or safety that can be minimized or prevented by the release of such 
information; provided, however, that unless such risk is immediate, a court order 
permitting the release shall be obtained prior to the release of the information.  
The confidentiality provisions provided for by the Act shall not apply to other 
parts of an employee’s or job applicant’s personnel or medical files.  If an 
employee refuses to sign a written consent form for release of information to 
persons as permitted in the Act, (Insert name of employer here) shall not be 
barred from discharging or disciplining the employee. 
3. An employee or job applicant to be tested shall be given (1) a medication 
disclosure form to permit the employee or job applicant to disclose any non-
prescription or prescription medications that have been taken within forty-five 
(45) days prior to being tested, and (2) a statement that the form shall be 
submitted directly to the employer’s designated Medical Review Officer, ensuring 
that no person or entity has access to the information disclosed on the form other 
than the Medical Review Officer. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. § 71-7-21 
CHAPTER 54 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CERTIFIED NURSE AIDES 
Subchapter 1   GENERAL PURPOSE 
Rule 54.1.1 Any aide that has been found by the licensing agency to have abused neglected, or 
misappropriated the property of a long-term care resident, shall be placed on the 
Nurse Aide Registry.  Only the licensing agency may flag and/or place adverse 
findings against a nurse aide due to resident abuse, resident neglect, or 
misappropriation of resident property on the Nurse Aide Registry.  The purpose of 
these regulations is to provide the procedural guidelines relating to all aspects of 
the administrative hearing process, should one be requested, for the placement of 
findings against a nurse aide on the Nurse Aide Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1117>>>
 
1117 
  
Subchapter 2   AUTHORITY. 
Rule 54.2.1 Administrative Hearings are held pursuant to Title 42 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations (CFR), Sections 483.156(a), Establishment of Registry, and 
483.158(c), Registry Content. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 3   DEFINITIONS 
Rule 54.3.1 Abuse. Shall mean the willful infliction of physical pain, intimidation, injury or 
mental anguish on a long-term care resident, or the willful deprivation of goods or 
services which are necessary to attain or maintain the physical, mental, and/or 
psychosocial health of a long-term care resident.  This presumes that instances of 
abuse of all residents, even those in a coma, cause physical harm, or pain or 
mental anguish.  “Abuse” shall not mean conduct which is a part of the treatment 
and care of, and in furtherance of the health and safety of a patient or resident.  
However, it shall include, but not be limited to, exploitation, involuntary 
seclusion, physical abuse, psychological abuse, psychosocial well-being, sexual 
abuse and/or verbal abuse. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.2 Exploitation.  Shall mean the illegal or improper use of a resident or his 
resources for another’s profit or advantage. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.3 Involuntary Seclusion. Shall mean separation of a resident from other residents 
or from his or her room or confinement to his or her room (with or without 
roommates) against the resident’s will, or the will of the resident’s legal 
representative.  Emergency or temporary monitored separation from other 
residents will not be considered involuntary seclusion and may be permitted if 
used for a limited period of time as a therapeutic intervention to reduce agitation 
as determined by professional staff and consistent with the resident’s plan of care 
or until professional staff can develop a plan of care to meet the resident’s needs. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.4 Physical Abuse. Shall include hitting, slapping, pinching, kicking, etc…, by 
which physical and/or psychological harm or trauma occurs.  It also includes 
controlling behavior through corporal punishment. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.5 Psychological Abuse. Shall include, but is not limited to, intentional humiliation, 
harassment, threats of punishment or deprivation, whereby individuals suffer 
psychological harm or trauma. 
<<<PAGE 1118>>>
 
1118 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.6 Sexual Abuse. Shall include, but is not limited to, sexual harassment, sexual 
coercion, or sexual assault. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.7 Verbal Abuse. Is defined as any use of oral, written or gestured language that 
willfully includes disparaging and derogatory terms to residents or their families, 
or within their hearing distance, regardless of their age, ability to comprehend, or 
disability.  Examples of verbal abuse include, but are not limited to:  threats of 
harm, saying things to frighten a resident, such as telling a resident that he/she 
will never be able to see her/his family again. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.8 Mental Abuse. Shall include, but is not limited to, humiliation, harassment, 
threats of punishment or deprivation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.9 Aide. Shall mean a certified nurse aide (CNA) who has met all requirements of 
the licensing agency and whose name appears on the Nurse Aide Registry.  For 
purposes of alleged violation(s) by a student/trainee nurse aide, said individual is 
to be considered under the same guidelines as an aide. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.10 Court. Shall mean the chancery court of the county in which the nurse aide 
resides or the First Judicial District Chancery Court of Hinds County. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.11 Department. Shall mean the Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.12 Director. Shall mean the Director of Division of Health Facilities Licensure and 
Certification, Mississippi Department of Health. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.13 Finding. Shall mean a determination made by the licensing agency that validates 
allegations of abuse, neglect, mistreatment, or misappropriation against a long-
term care resident by an aide.  The determination shall be based on clear and 
convincing evidence. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1119>>>
 
1119 
  
Rule 54.3.14 Hearing Officer. Shall mean an individual appointed by the Director to preside 
over the Administrative Hearing with power to administer oaths, take testimony, 
rule on questions of evidence and make agency determinations of fact.  The 
Hearing Officer may be employee of the Department or the Licensing Agency 
provided this individual is not directly involved in the investigation. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.15 Investigator. Shall mean an employee of the licensing agency who is a surveyor 
assigned to collect information regarding all alleged charges of resident abuse, 
resident neglect or misappropriation of resident property by an aide towards a 
resident. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.16 Licensing Agency. Shall mean the Division of Licensure and Certification of the 
Mississippi Department of Health, which is the Mississippi Survey Agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.17 Long-Term Care Resident. Shall mean any resident of a skilled nursing facility 
(SNF) and/or nursing facility (NF).  For the purposes of these regulations, 
“resident” shall mean resident of a long-term care facility. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.18 Misappropriation of Resident Property. Is defined as the patterned or 
deliberate misplacement, exploitation, or wrongful, temporary or permanent use 
of a resident’s belongings or money without the resident’s consent. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.19 Neglect. Shall mean the failure to supply the long term care resident with the care, 
food, clothing, goods, shelter, health care, supervision, or other services which are 
necessary to maintain his/her mental and physical health.  Neglect occurs on an 
individual basis when a resident does not receive care in one or more areas (e.g., 
absence of frequent monitoring for a resident known to be incontinent, resulting 
in being left to lie in urine or feces). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.3.20 Surveyor. Shall mean an individual who has successfully completed the Health 
Care Financing Administration approved training and passed the Surveyor 
Minimum Qualifications Test (SMQT). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 4   PROCEDURE 
<<<PAGE 1120>>>
 
1120 
  
Rule 54.4.1 Whenever information is received, or when the licensing agency has cause to 
believe that an aide has abused, neglected, or misappropriated the property of a 
long-term care resident, the licensing agency shall investigate the same.  
Documentation of said investigation shall be made including, but not limited to, 
the nature of the allegation and the evidence that led the licensing agency to 
conclude that the allegation was valid or not. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.2 Once an allegation that resident neglect, resident abuse, or misappropriation of 
resident property is found valid, based on oral or written evidence and 
investigation, the State completes the following notification procedures:  The 
State notifies the following in writing within ten (10) working days of the 
investigation: 
1. Aide(s) implicated in the investigation; 
2. The current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred; and 
3. Nurse Aide Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.3 Upon receipt of a copy of the notice of right to hearing by the Nurse Aide 
Registry, a disciplinary flag will be entered in the Nurse Aide Registry to indicate 
that an investigation has been conducted, allegations have been found valid by the 
licensing agency, and the aide has been notified of his/her right to a hearing.  No 
specific details are entered on the Nurse Aide Registry at this time. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.4 Notice of Right to Hearing is sent to the aide at his/her last known address 
registered with the nursing home or the licensing agency.  Attached to the notice 
shall be a written finding by the Licensing Agency stating the reasons for its 
determination.  The notice is sent via regular United States Postal Services mail 
and Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.5 The notice will include the following information: 
1. A statement informing the aide of the nature of the allegation and his/her conduct 
constituting the violation and confirmation of the findings by the licensing 
agency’s investigator; 
2. Date and approximate time of the occurrence; 
<<<PAGE 1121>>>
 
1121 
  
3. A statement that the aide has a right to a hearing and must request a hearing in 
writing within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice; 
4. A statement that the “Request for Hearing Form” accompanying the notice may be 
used to request a hearing; 
5. A statement that if the aide fails to request a hearing in writing or the time to 
request a hearing has expired, it will be interpreted as a waiver of his/her right to a 
hearing and the Licensing Agency’s findings will be reported to the Nurse Aide 
Registry; 
6. A statement of the Licensing Agency’s intent to place substantiated findings by an 
Administrative Hearing Officer on the Nurse Aide Registry; 
7. A statement advising the aide of the consequences of waiving the right to a hearing 
and/or the consequences of a finding by the hearing officer that the resident abuse 
or resident neglect or misappropriation of resident property did occur (e.g., 
findings must be included and remain in the registry permanently, unless the 
finding was made in error, the individual was found not guilty in a court of law, or 
the State is notified of the individual’s death); 
8. A statement that any prospective employer, or others, checking the aide’s status on 
the Nurse Aide Registry will be advised of any pending hearing and/or final 
decision; 
9. A statement that whether or not a hearing is requested, the aide has the right to 
submit a written statement disputing the allegations if he/she chooses to do so; 
and 
10. Right of the accused aide to be represented by an attorney at the individual’s own 
expense. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.6 If a hearing is requested, the same shall be held within sixty (60) days of  the 
request.  A “Notice of Administrative Hearing” shall be sent stating the date, time, 
and place of the hearing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.7 The notice will be sent to the following individuals: 
1. Aide(s) implicated in the investigation; 
2. The current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred; and 
3. Attorney for the aide (if applicable). 
<<<PAGE 1122>>>
 
1122 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.8 The notice will include the following information: 
1. A statement that the aide may appear with or without counsel, shall have the right 
to cross-examine all witnesses, present evidence/testimony, either written or oral, 
on his or her own behalf, and to refute any testimony or evidence presented; 
2. A statement that formal rules of evidence and procedure will not apply, but a record 
of said hearing shall be made.  The licensing agency shall present its case, and the 
aide will then present his/her case; and 
3. A statement that if the aide requests a hearing but fails to appear for the scheduled 
hearing, this will be interpreted by the Licensing Agency as a waiver of the aide’s 
right to a hearing and findings against the aide will be placed on the Nurse Aide 
Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.4.9 The notice will be sent via United States Postal Service regular and Certified 
Mail, Return Receipt Requested.  A copy of the “Regulations Regarding 
Placement of Findings of Resident Abuse, Resident Neglect, and/or 
Misappropriation of Resident Property Against a Nurse Aide Registry” will be 
included with the notice. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 5     CONDUCT OF HEARING 
Rule 54.5.1 A Hearing Officer will be appointed by the Director. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.2 The State must hold a hearing and complete the hearing record within 120 days 
from the date of receipt of the hearing request. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.3 The State must hold the hearing in a manner consistent with State practice, at a 
time and place established by the licensing agency. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.4 Formal rules of evidence and procedure will not apply, but a record of said 
hearing shall be made.  The licensing agency shall present its case, and the aide 
will then present his/her case.  In order for the licensing agency’s decision to be 
upheld, the facts constituting the violation must be proved by substantial 
evidence. 
<<<PAGE 1123>>>
 
1123 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.5 At the close of the hearing, the Administrative Hearing Officer shall, within sixty 
(60) days, prepare written findings and conclusions, and an order.  This order will 
be the final agency decision. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.6 If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds that the aide neglected or abused a 
resident or misappropriated a resident’s property, the substantiated findings must 
be reported in writing within ten (10) days to: 
1. Aide; 
2. Attorney for aide (if applicable); 
3. Current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred; 
4. The administrator of the facility that currently employs the individual, if it is not 
the same facility in which the incident occurred; 
5. The Division of Medicaid; and 
6. The Nurse Aide Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.5.7 The notification sent to the aide will be mailed via United States Postal Service 
regular and Certified Mail, Return Receipt Requested.  A copy of the 
Administrative Hearing Officer’s decision will be attached to the notice.  The 
notification will include the following: 
1. A statement that the Administrative Hearing Officer found that the aide did abuse a 
resident, neglect a resident, and/or misappropriated a resident’s property; 
2. A statement that the aide is not eligible to work in a long-term care facility in 
Mississippi; 
3. A statement that if an aide is aggrieved of the final decision, the aide may appeal on 
the record to the appropriate chancery court; and 
4. A statement that the aide will bear the cost of transcription of the earlier 
proceedings, and preparation of the record, should an appeal be taken. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 6   REPORTING FINDINGS TO THE NURSE AIDE REGISTRY 
Rule 54.6.1 The licensing agency must notify the Nurse Aide Registry of the findings. 
<<<PAGE 1124>>>
 
1124 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.6.2 The Administrative Hearing Officer’s findings of resident abuse, resident neglect 
or misappropriation of resident property must be included in the Nurse Aide 
Registry within ten (10) working days of the Administrative Hearing Officer’s 
decision. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.6.3 The following information must be included and remain in the registry 
permanently, unless the findings was made in error, the individual was found not 
guilty in a court of law, or the State is notified of the individual’s death: 
1. Documentation of the investigation, including the nature of the allegation and the 
evidence that led to the conclusion that the allegation was valid; 
2. The date of the hearing, if such request was made, and its outcome; 
3. The date of the court decision (i.e., review of Hearing Officer’s decision by a court 
or criminal conviction by a court), and its outcome; and 
4. A statement by the individual disputing the allegation if the individual chose to 
make one. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.6.4 If an aide is found guilty by a court of law or pleads nolo contendere for abusing 
or neglecting a resident or misappropriating a resident’s property, it is not 
necessary to offer an administrative hearing concerning the same incident before 
making a notation in the registry.  The trial and court order satisfy the Social 
Security Act’s requirements for a hearing.  In this case, the findings of the court 
will be placed on the Nurse Aide Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 54.6.5 If the Administrative Hearing Officer finds that the aide did not neglect or abuse a 
resident or misappropriate a resident’s property, the disciplinary flag will be 
removed and the aide’s name restored to full capacity on the Nurse Aide Registry. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Subchapter 7   CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS 
Rule 54.7.1 Information relating to complaints/allegations that are found to be invalid shall 
not be disclosed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1125>>>
 
1125 
  
Rule 54.7.2 Prior to a hearing or the opportunity for hearing, information relating to 
complaints/allegations that are found to be valid will be disclosed as set forth in 
paragraph 103.02 above.  Along with the fact that adverse findings against a nurse 
aide have been placed on the Nurse Aide Registry, other information shall be 
released pursuant to Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Section 483.156 
(d), Disclosure of Information.  The records and documentation concerning the 
investigation and findings will be permanently maintained by the licensing 
agency.  These records shall include, where applicable, documentation of the 
investigation, including the nature of the allegation and evidence that led the 
licensing agency to conclude that the allegation was valid; any statements made 
by the aide in writing, disputing the allegation; and the date and outcome of the 
hearing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
CHAPTER 82 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR UTILIZATION REVIEW AGENTS 
Subchapter 1  AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
 
Rule 82.1.1 The following Rules and Regulations for Utilization Review in Mississippi are duly 
adopted and promulgated by the Mississippi State Board of Health pursuant to the 
authority expressly conferred by Section 41-83-1 et seq., Mississippi Code of 1972 
Annotated. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.1.2 The purpose of these rules and regulations is to promote the delivery of quality 
health care in a cost effective manner; foster greater coordination between payors 
and providers conducting utilization review activities; protect patients, business and 
providers by ensuring that private review agents are qualified to perform utilization 
activities and to make informed decisions on the appropriateness of medical care; 
and to ensure that private review agents maintain the confidentiality of medical 
records. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 2 SCOPE 
 
Rule 82.2.1 In the State of Mississippi, every health insurance plan or every insurer proposing 
to issue or deliver a health insurance policy or contract or administer a health 
benefit program which provides for the coverage of hospital and medical benefits 
and the utilization review of those benefits; every health insurer proposing to 
issue or deliver in this state a group or blanket health insurance policy or 
administer a health benefit program which provides for the coverage of hospital 
and medical benefits and the utilization review of such benefits shall: 
<<<PAGE 1126>>>
 
1126 
  
1. Have a certificate in accordance with these regulations; 
2. Contract with a private review agent that has a certificate in accordance with these 
regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.2.2 Notwithstanding any provisions of these regulations, for claims where medical 
necessity of the provision of a covered benefit is disputed, an insurer that does not 
meet the requirements of this section shall pay any person or hospital entitled to 
reimbursement under the policy or contract. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 3 DEFINITIONS 
1. Appeal:  A formal request to reconsider a determination not to certify an 
admission, extension of stay, or other medical service. 
2. Attending Physician:  The physician with primary responsibility for the care 
provided to a patient in a hospital or other health care facility. 
3. Certificate:  A certificate of registration granted by the Mississippi Department 
of Health to a private review agent, and is not transferable. 
4. Certification:  A determination by a utilization review organization that an 
admission, extension of stay, or other medical service has been reviewed and 
based on the information provided, qualifies as medically necessary and 
appropriate under the medical review requirements of the applicable health 
benefit plan. 
5. Certification Number:  The number assigned to each certified private review 
agent.  This number is not transferable. 
6. Certified Private Review Agent:  A private review agent who meets all the 
criteria for certification as set forth in these rules and regulations, has paid all 
current fees, and has been assigned a certification number. 
7. Concurrent Review:  Utilization review conducted during a patient's hospital 
stay or course of treatment. 
8. Consulting Physician:  A Medical Doctor, Doctor of Osteopathy, Dentist, 
Psychologist, Podiatrist or Chiropractor who possess the degree of skill ordinarily 
possessed and used by members of his or her profession in good standing, and 
actively engaged in the same type of practice and relevant specialty.  The medical 
and osteopathy specialist shall be certified by the Boards within the American 
Board of Medical Specialists or the American Board of Osteopathy. 
<<<PAGE 1127>>>
 
1127 
  
9. Department:  The Mississippi Department of Health. 
10. Director:  The Director of the Division of Health Facilities Licensure and 
Certification of the Mississippi Department of Health. 
11. Enrollee:  The individual who has elected to contract for, or participate in, a 
health benefit plan for their self and/or their dependents. 
12. Expedited Appeal:  A request for additional review of a utilization review 
organization's determination not to certify an admission, extension of stay, or 
other medical service.  An expedited appeal request may be called a 
reconsideration request by some utilization review organizations. 
13. Hospital:  An institution which is primarily engaged in providing to inpatients, by 
or under the supervision of physicians, diagnostic services and therapeutic 
services for medical diagnosis, treatment and care of injured, disabled or sick 
persons, or rehabilitation services for the rehabilitation of injured, disabled or sick 
persons, and also, means a place devoted primarily to the maintenance and 
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and illness, disease, injury or 
deformity, or a place devoted primarily to providing obstetrical or other medical, 
surgical or nursing care of individuals, whether or not any such place be 
organized or operated for profit and whether any such place be publicly or 
privately owned.  The term "Hospital" does not include convalescent or boarding 
homes, children's homes, homes for the aged or other like establishments where 
room and board only are provided, nor does it include offices or clinics where 
patients are not regularly kept as bed patients. 
14. Patient:  The intended recipient of the proposed health care, his/her 
representative, and/or the enrollee. 
15. Physician Advisor:  A physician representing the claim administrator/utilization 
review organization who provides advice on whether to certify an admission, 
extension of stay, or other medical service as being medically necessary and 
appropriate. 
16. Private Review Agent:  A non-hospital affiliated person or entity performing 
utilization review on behalf of: 
a. An employer or employees in the State of Mississippi; or 
b. A third party that provides or administers hospital and medical benefits to 
citizens of this state, including: a health maintenance organization issued a 
certificate of authority under and by virtue of the laws of the State of 
Mississippi, or a health insurer, nonprofit health service plan, health 
insurance service organization, or preferred provider organization or  other 
entity offering health insurance policies, contracts or benefits in this state.     
<<<PAGE 1128>>>
 
1128 
  
17. Provider Utilization Review Representative:  The person(s) in a physician's 
office or hospital designated by the physician or hospital to provide the necessary 
information to complete the review process. 
18. Review Criteria:  The written policies, decision rules, medical protocols, or 
guides used by the utilization review organization to determine certification [e.g., 
Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol (AEP) and Intensity of Service, Severity of 
Illness, Discharge, and Appropriateness Screens (ISD-A)].  
19. Utilization Review:  A system for reviewing the appropriate and efficient 
allocation of hospital resources and medical services given or proposed to be 
given to a patient or group of patients.  More specifically, utilization review refers 
to pre-service determination of the medical necessity or appropriateness of 
services to be rendered in a hospital setting either on an inpatient or outpatient 
basis, when such determination results in approval or denial of payment for the 
services.  It includes both prospective and concurrent review and may include 
retrospective review under certain circumstances. 
20. Utilization Review Plan:  A description of the utilization review procedures of a 
private review agent. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 4  APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATION 
Rule 82.4.1 A private review agent who approves or denies payment or who recommends 
approval or denial of payment for hospital or medical services or whose review 
results in approval or denial of payment for hospital or medical services on a case 
by case basis, may not conduct utilization review in this state unless the 
Mississippi Department of Health has granted the private review agent a 
certificate. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.4.2 The Mississippi Department of Health shall issue a certificate to any applicant 
that has met all the requirements and all applicable regulations of the department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.4.3 A certificate is not transferable.  When there is a change of ownership of the 
Certified Organization, a new application will be required and a new number will 
be issued. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.4.4 Any information required by the Department with respect to customers, patients 
or utilization review procedures of a private review agent shall be held in 
confidence and not disclosed to the public. 
<<<PAGE 1129>>>
 
1129 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1’ 
Rule 82.4.5 A Private Review Agent applying for a certificate shall submit the following 
documentation to the Department: 
1. A completed application, signed and verified by the applicant; 
2. An fee, as set by the Mississippi State Board of Health, made payable to 
Mississippi State Department of Health, either by business check, money order, or 
by electronic means; and 
3. A utilization review plan which shall include all of the following 
components used by the private review agent to approve or deny payment or 
recommend approval or denial of payment in advance for proposed or delivered 
inpatient or outpatient care or retrospectively approve or deny under certain 
circumstances: 
a. Elements of review for: 
i. Preadmission 
ii. Admission 
iii. Preauthorization 
iv. Second Surgical Opinion 
v. Discharge Planning 
vi. Concurrent Review 
vii.  Retrospective Review 
viii. Readmission Review 
b. Procedures for review, including: 
i. Any form used during the review process; 
ii. Time frames that shall be met during the review; and 
iii.  A written protocol describing every aspect of the review process; 
iv.  A description and examples of review criteria to be  used for the 
review; 
v. The provisions, procedures, and time frames by which patients, 
physicians, and hospitals may seek reconsideration or appeal of 
adverse decisions by the private review agent, including: 
<<<PAGE 1130>>>
 
1130 
  
4. A written protocol describing the appeals procedure; 
5. Any form which shall be completed during the appeals procedure; 
6. Time frames that shall be met during the appeal procedure; and 
7. The names and qualifications of personnel making final appeal 
determinations; 
a.    The number, type, and qualification or qualifications of the personnel 
either employed or under contract to perform the utilization review; 
b. The policies and procedures to ensure that a representative of the private 
review agent is accessible to patients and providers five (5) days a week 
during normal business hours in this state, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; and that a free 
telephone number be provided with adequate lines available and staffed.  
The procedure for handling after-hours inquiries shall be specified. 
c.    The policies and procedures to ensure that all applicable state and federal 
laws to protect the confidentiality of individual medical records are 
followed; 
d. A copy of the materials designed to inform applicable patients and providers 
of the requirements of the utilization review plan; and 
   e.  A list (names and addresses) of the third party payors for which the  
  private review agent is performing utilization review in this state. 
. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 5  RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATION 
 
Rule 82.5.1 A certificate expires on the second anniversary of its effective date unless 
certification has been renewed for a two (2) year term. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.5.2 Before the certification expires, the certified private review agent may renew its  
  certification for an additional two (2) year term, if the certified private review  
  agent: 
  1. Is otherwise entitled to be certified; 
  2. Pays to the Department the renewal fee as set by the Board of Health,  
   made payable to the Mississippi State Department of Health, either by  
   business check, money order, or by electronic means; and 
<<<PAGE 1131>>>
 
1131 
  
  3. Submits to the Department: 
a. A renewal application on the form that the Department  requires 
b. An update of information as required under Part IV of these rules 
 and regulations 
c. An annual report. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.5.3 The Department shall renew the certification of each certified private review 
agent, if the requirements of these regulations are met. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 6 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION AND PENALTY 
 
Rule 82.6.1 The Director shall deny a certificate to an applicant if the Department finds that 
the applicant does not: 
1. Have available the services of a sufficient number of registered nurses, 
that are supervised by appropriate physicians to efficiently carry out its 
utilization review activities; 
2. Meet any applicable provisions of these rules and regulations relating to 
the qualifications of private review agents or the performance of 
utilization review the Department adopts relating to the qualifications of 
private review agents or the performance of utilization review; 
3. Have policies and procedures which protect the confidentiality of medical 
records in accordance with applicable state and federal laws; or 
4. Make itself accessible to patients and providers five (5) working days a 
week during normal business hours in this state. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.6.2 The Director may revoke the certification of a private review agent if the 
Department finds that the agent: 
1. Does not comply with performance assurances; 
2. Violates any provision of these rules and regulations; 
3. Fails to substantially meet the standards and qualifications adopted by the 
Director; or 
<<<PAGE 1132>>>
 
1132 
  
4. Fails to comply with the regulations adopted by the Department. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.6.3 Before denying or revoking a certificate, the Director shall provide the applicant 
or certificate holder: 
1. Written notice of the reasons for the denial or revocation; 
2. Thirty (30) days in which to supply additional information demonstrating 
compliance with the requirements; and 
3. The opportunity to request a hearing in accordance with the Mississippi 
Administrative Procedures Law, Section 25-43-17, Mississippi Code of 
1972. 
 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.6.4 If the applicant requests a hearing, the Director shall send a hearing notice by 
certified mail, return receipt requested, at least thirty (30) days before the hearing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.6.5 A private review agent may not disclose or publish individual medical records or 
any other confidential medical information obtained in the performance of 
utilizaition review activities without the patient's authorization or an order of a 
county, circuit or chancery court of Mississippi or a U. S. District Court.  It is 
provided, however, that nothing in these regulations shall prohibit private review 
agents from providing information to the third party with whom the private review 
agent is under contract or acting on behalf of. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.6.6 A person who violates any provision of these regulations is guilty of a 
misdemeanor, and on conviction is subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000.00.   
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 7  UTILIZATION REVIEW STANDARDS 
 
Rule 82.7.1. Responsibility for Obtaining Certification 
1. In the absence of any contractual agreement to the contrary, the enrollee is 
responsible for notifying the private review agent in a timely manner and 
obtaining certification for health care services.  A private review agent 
shall allow any licensed hospital, physician, or responsible patient 
<<<PAGE 1133>>>
 
1133 
  
representative, including a family member, to assist in fulfilling that 
responsibility. 
2. To assure confidentiality, a private review agent must, when contacting a 
physician's office or hospital, provide its certification number, the caller's 
name, and professional qualification to the designated utilization review 
representative in the physician's office or hospital. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.2 Information Upon Which Utilization Review is Conducted 
1. When conducting routine prospective and concurrent utilization review, 
the private review agent shall collect only the information necessary to 
certify the admission, procedure or treatment and length of stay. 
2. A private review agent should not routinely expect hospitals and 
physicians to supply numerically codified diagnoses or procedures.  The 
private review agent may ask for such coding, since if it is known, its 
inclusion in the data collected increases the effectiveness of the 
communication. 
3. The private review agent shall not routinely request copies of medical 
records on all patients reviewed.  During prospective and concurrent 
review, copies of medical records should only be required when a 
difficulty develops in certifying the medical necessity or appropriateness 
of the admission or extension of stay.  In those cases, only the necessary or 
pertinent sections of the record should be required. 
4. Private review agents may request copies of medical records 
retrospectively for a number of purposes, including auditing the services 
provided, quality assurance, evaluation of compliance with the terms of 
the health benefit plan or UR provisions.  With the exception of the 
reviewing of records associated with an appeal or with an investigation of 
data discrepancies and unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, 
health care providers should be reimbursed the reasonable direct costs of 
duplicating requested records for retrospective review. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.3 Except as otherwise provided in these standards, a private review agent should 
limit its initial data requirements to the following elements: 
1. Patient Information 
a. Name 
b. Address 
<<<PAGE 1134>>>
 
1134 
  
c. Date of Birth 
d. Sex 
e. Social Security Number or Patient ID Number 
f. Name of Carrier or Plan 
g. Plan ID Number 
2. Enrollee Information 
a. Name 
b. Address 
c. Social Security Number or Employee ID Number 
d. Relation to Patient 
e. Employer 
f. Health Benefit Plan 
g. Group Number/Plan ID Number 
h. Other Coverage Available (Workers Comp., Medicare, etc.)  
3. Attending Physician/Practitioner Information 
a. Name 
b. Address 
c. Phone Number 
d. Degree 
e. Specialty/Certification Status 
f. Tax ID or Other ID Number 
4. Diagnosis/Treatment Information 
a. Primary Diagnosis 
b. Secondary Diagnosis 
c. Proposed Procedure(s) or Treatment(s) 
<<<PAGE 1135>>>
 
1135 
  
d. Surgical Assistant Requirement 
e. Anesthesia Requirement 
f. Proposed Admission or Service Date(s) 
g. Proposed Procedure Date 
h. Proposed Length of Stay 
5. Clinical Information. Sufficient information for support of appropriateness 
and level of service proposed 
6. Facility Information 
a. Type (such as in-patient, out-patient, rehab, etc.) 
b. Status (DRG exempt status, as needed) 
c. Name 
d. Address 
e. Phone Number 
f. Tax ID or Other ID Number 
7. Concurrent (Continued Stay) Review Information 
a. Clinical Contact Person 
b. Additional Days/Services Proposed 
c. Reasons for Extension 
d. Diagnosis (same/changed) 
e. Clinical Information (Sufficient to support, as above) 
8. Admissions to Facilities Other Than Acute Medical/Surgical Hospitals 
a. History of Present Illness 
b. Patient Treatment Plan and Goals 
c. Prognosis 
d. Staff Qualifications 
e. 24 Hour Availability of Staff 
<<<PAGE 1136>>>
 
1136 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.4. Special Situations 
 
1. Additional information may be required for other specific review 
functions such as discharge planning or catastrophic case management.  
Second opinion information may also be required, when applicable, 
sufficient to support benefit plan requirements. 
2. Information in addition to that described in this section may be requested 
by the private review agent or voluntarily submitted by the provider, when 
there is significant lack of agreement between the private review agent and 
health care provider regarding the appropriateness of certification during 
the review or appeal process.  "Significant lack of agreement" means that 
the private review agent has: 
a. Tentatively determined, through its professional staff, that a 
service cannot be certified; 
b. Referred the case to a physician for review; and 
c. Talked to or attempted to talk to the attending physician for further 
information. 
3. A private review agent should share all clinical and demographic 
information on individual patients among its various divisions (e.g., 
certification, discharge planning, case management) to avoid duplicate 
requests for information from enrollee or providers. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.5 Procedures For Review Determination 
 
1. Each private review agent shall have written procedures to assure that 
reviews are conducted in a timely manner. 
2. Each private review agent shall make certification determinations within 
two working days of receipt of the necessary information on a proposed 
admission or service requiring a review determination.  Collection of the 
necessary information may necessitate a discussion with the attending 
physician or, based on the requirements of the health benefit plan, may 
involve a completed second opinion review. 
3. A private review agent may review ongoing inpatient stays, but shall not 
routinely conduct daily review on all such stays.  The frequency of the 
review for extension of the initial determination should vary based on the 
<<<PAGE 1137>>>
 
1137 
  
severity or complexity of the patient's condition or on necessary treatment 
and discharge planning activity.  Routine concurrent review generally 
should not be necessary earlier than 24 hours prior to the lapse of the 
certified length of stay. 
4. Each private review agent shall have in place written procedures for 
providing notification of its determination regarding certification, 
recertification, or extensions of previously authorized length of stay in 
accordance with the following: 
5. When an initial determination is made to certify, notification shall be 
provided promptly either by telephone or in writing, to the attending 
physician.  The notification shall be transmitted in writing to the hospital 
and attending physician, as well as to the enrollee or patient, within two 
working days. 
6. A determination to certify resulting from concurrent review shall be 
transmitted to the attending physician by telephone or in writing within 
one working day of receipt of all information necessary to complete the 
review process or prior to the end of the current certified period. 
7. If a private review agent transmits written confirmation of certification for 
continued hospitalization, that notification shall include the number of 
extended days, the new total number of days approved, and the date of 
admission. 
8. When a determination is made not to certify a hospital or surgery facility 
admission or extension of a hospital stay or other service requiring review 
determination, the attending physician shall be notified by telephone 
within one working day and a written notification should be sent within 
one working day to the hospital, attending physician and the enrollee or 
patient.  The written notification shall include the principal reason(s) for 
the determination and the way to initiate an appeal of the determination if 
the enrollee, patient, or their representative so chooses.  Reasons for a 
determination not to certify shall include, among other things, the lack of 
adequate information to certify after a reasonable attempt has been made 
to contact the attending physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.6 Notwithstanding language to the contrary elsewhere contained herein, if a 
licensed physician certifies in writing to an insurer within seventy-two (72) hours 
of an admission that the insured person admitted was in need of emergency 
admission to hospital care, such shall constitute a prima facie case of the medical 
necessity of the admission.  An emergency admission results from sudden onset 
of a medical condition manifested by acute symptoms of sufficient severity that 
absence of immediate inpatient hospitalization could reasonably result in: 
<<<PAGE 1138>>>
 
1138 
  
1. Permanently placing the patient's health in jeopardy; 
2. Serious impairment to bodily functions; or 
3. Serious and permanent dysfunction of any bodily organ or part, or other 
serious medical consequences. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.7 To overcome this, the entity requesting the utilization review and/or the private 
review agent must show by clear and convincing evidence that the admitted person 
was not in need of immediate hospital care. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.7.8 Private review agents shall have in place written procedures to address the failure of 
a health care provider, patient, or their representative to provide the necessary 
information for review.  If the patient or provider will not release the necessary 
information to the UR Organization, the UR Organization may deny certification in 
accordance with its own policy or that of the health benefit plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 8  APPEALS OF DETERMINATIONS NOT TO CERTIFY 
Rule 82.8.1 Each private review agent shall have in place procedures for appeals of 
determinations not to certify an admission, procedure, service or extension of 
stay.  The right to appeal shall be available to the patient or enrollee, and to the 
attending physician on behalf of the patient.  The procedures for appeals shall 
include, at a minimum, the following statement: 
1. Any person aggrieved by a final decision of the department or a private 
review agent in a contested case under this act shall have the right of 
judicial appeal to the chancery court of the county of the residence of the 
aggrieved person. 
2. Notwithstanding any provision of this act, the insured shall have the 
express right to pursue any legal remedies he may have in a court of 
competent jurisdiction. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 9  EXPEDITED APPEAL 
 
Rule 82.9.1 When an initial determination not to certify a health care service is made prior to or 
during an ongoing service requiring review, and the attending physician believes 
that the determination warrants immediate appeal, the attending physician shall 
<<<PAGE 1139>>>
 
1139 
  
have an opportunity to appeal that determination over the telephone on an expedited 
basis, within one working day.  Each private review agent shall provide for 
reasonable access to its consulting physician(s) for such appeals.  Both providers of 
care and private review agents should attempt to share the maximum information by 
phone, FAX, or otherwise to resolve the expedited appeal (sometimes called a 
reconsideration request) satisfactorily. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.9.1 Expedited appeals which do not resolve a difference of opinion may be resubmitted 
through the standard appeal process. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 10 STANDARD APPEAL 
Rule 82.10.1 The private review agents shall establish procedures for appeals to be made in 
writing and/or by telephone. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.10.2 Each private review agent shall notify in writing the patient, provider and claims 
administrator of its determination on the appeal as soon as practical, but in no 
case later that 60 days after receiving the required documentation on the appeal.  
The documentation required by the private review agent may include copies of 
part or all of the medical record and/or a written statement from the attending 
physician. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.10.3 Prior to upholding the original decision not to certify for clinical reasons, the 
private review agent shall conduct a review of such documentation by a physician 
who did not make the original determination not to certify. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.10.4 The process established by a private review agent may include a period within 
which an appeal must be filed to be considered. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.10.5 An attending physician who has been unsuccessful in an attempt to reverse a 
determination not to certify should be provided, upon request, the clinical basis 
for the determination. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
<<<PAGE 1140>>>
 
1140 
  
Subchapter 11 NOTIFICATION TO THE CLAIMS ADMINISTRATOR 
 
Rule 82.11.1 Each private review agent shall forward, either electronically or in writing, a 
notification of certification or determination not to certify to the appropriate 
claims administrator for the health benefit plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 12 CONFIDENTIALITY 
Rule 82.12 Each private review agent shall have written procedures for assuring that patient-
specific information obtained during the process of utilization review will be: 
1. Kept confidential in accordance with applicable federal and state laws; 
2. Used solely for the purposes of utilization review, quality assurance, 
discharge planning and catastrophic case management; and 
3. Shared with only those agencies (such as the claims administrator) who 
have authority to receive such information. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.12.2 Summary data shall not be considered confidential if it does not provide sufficient 
information to allow identification of individual patients. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 13 STAFF AND PROGRAM QUALIFICATIONS 
Rule 82.13.1 Each private review agent shall have utilization review staff who are properly 
trained, qualified, supervised and supported by written clinical criteria and review 
procedures.  Clinical criteria and review procedures shall be established with 
appropriate involvement from physicians. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.13.2 Nurses, physicians and other licensed health professionals conducting reviews of 
medical services, and other clinical reviewers conducting specialized reviews in 
their area of specialty shall be currently licensed or certified by an approved state 
licensing agency in the United States. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.13.3 A physician shall review all cases in which the private review agent has 
concluded that a determination not to certify for clinical reasons is appropriate.  
The physician should be reasonably available by telephone to discuss the 
determination with the attending physician. 
<<<PAGE 1141>>>
 
1141 
  
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.13.4 In cases where an appeal to reverse a determination not to certify for clinical 
reasons is unsuccessful, the private review agent should assure that a physician in 
the same or similar general specialty as typically manages the medical condition, 
procedure or treatment under discussion is reasonably available, as appropriate, to 
review the case.  For the purpose of this review, the phrase "reasonably available" 
shall mean within one working day, unless extenuating circumstances exist.  
These extenuating circumstances shall be in writing. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.13.5 Private review agents shall utilize the following: 
1. Written clinical criteria, as needed, for the purpose of determining the 
Appropriateness of the certification; such criteria should be periodically 
evaluated and updated; 
2. Physician consultants or specialists who are certified by the Boards within 
the American Board of Medical Specialists or the American Board of 
Osteopathy from the major areas of clinical services; 
3. A formal program for orientation and training of UR staff; and 
4. Written documentation of an active Quality Assessment Program. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 14 ACCESSIBILITY AND ON-SITE REVIEW PROCEDURES 
Rule 82.14.1 Each private review agent shall provide access to its review staff by a toll free or 
collect call phone line, at a minimum, from 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. of each 
normal business day in this state. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.14.2 Each private review agent shall also have a mechanism to receive timely call-
backs from providers and shall establish written procedures for receiving or 
redirecting after-hours calls, either in person or by recording. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.14.3 Each private review agent shall conduct its telephone and on-site information 
gathering reviews and hospital communications during the hospitals' and 
physicians' reasonable and normal business hours, unless otherwise mutually 
agreed. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
<<<PAGE 1142>>>
 
1142 
  
Rule 82.14.4 Each private review agent's staff shall identify themselves by name and by the 
name of their organization and, for on-site reviews, should carry picture 
identification and the private review agent company identification card.  On-site 
reviews should, whenever possible, be scheduled at least one business day in 
advance with the appropriate hospital contact.  Private review agents shall agree, 
if so requested, that the medical records remain available in designated areas 
during the on-site review and that reasonable hospital administrative procedures 
shall be followed by on-site review staff so as to not disrupt hospital operations or 
patient care.  Such procedures, however, should not limit the ability of the private 
review agent to efficiently conduct the necessary review on behalf of the patient's 
health benefit plan. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 15 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 82.15.1 The Director shall establish reporting requirements to: 
1. Evaluate the effectiveness of private review agents 
2. Determine if all the utilization review programs are in compliance with the 
provisions of these rules and regulations. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Subchapter 16 EXEMPTIONS 
Rule 82.16.1 The Director may waive the requirements of these rules and regulations for a 
private review agent that operates solely under contract with federal government 
for utilization review of patients eligible for hospital services under Title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act (Medicare) and Title XIX (Medicaid). 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.16.2 No certificate is required for utilization review by any Mississippi licensed 
pharmacist or pharmacy, or organizations of either, while engaged in the practice 
of pharmacy in this state. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
Rule 82.16.8 No certificate is required for those private review agents conducting general in-
house utilization review for hospitals, home health agencies, preferred provider 
organizations or other managed care entities, clinics, private physician offices or 
any other health facility or entity, so long as the review does not result in the 
approval or denial of payment for hospital or medical services for a particular 
case.  Such general in-house utilization review is completely exempt. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
<<<PAGE 1143>>>
 
1143 
  
Subchapter 17 AMENDMENTS 
Rule 82.17.1 House Bill 1330 of the Mississippi Legislature 2000 Regular Session amended 
Section 41-83-31, Mississippi Code of 1972, as follows: 
1. 41-83-31.  Any program of utilization review with regard to hospital, 
medical or other health care services provided in this state shall comply 
with the following: 
a. No determination adverse to a patient or to any affected health care 
provider shall be made on any question relating to the necessity or 
justification for any form of hospital, medical or other health care 
services without prior evaluation and concurrence in the adverse 
determination by a physician licensed to practice in Mississippi.  
The physician who made the adverse determination shall discuss 
the reasons for any adverse determination with the affected health 
care provider, if the provider so requests.  The physician shall 
comply with this request within fourteen (14) calendar days of 
being notified of a request.  Adverse determination by a physician 
shall not be grounds for any disciplinary action against the 
physician by the State Board of Medical Licensure. 
b. Any determination regarding hospital, medical or other health care 
services rendered or to be rendered to a patient which may result in 
a denial of third-party reimbursement or a denial of pre-
certification for that service shall include the evaluation, findings 
and concurrence of a physician trained in the relevant specialty or 
subspecialty, if requested by the patient(s physician, to make a 
final determination that care rendered or to be rendered was, is, or 
may be medically inappropriate. 
c. The requirement in this section that the physician who makes the 
evaluation and concurrence in the adverse determination must be 
licensed to practice in Mississippi shall not apply to the 
Comprehensive Health Insurance Risk Pool Association or its 
policyholders and shall not apply to any utilization review 
company which reviews fewer than ten persons residing in the 
State of Mississippi. 
SOURCE: Miss. Code Ann. §41.83.1 
 
CHAPTER 83. MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITIES 
SUBCHAPTER 1. GENERAL :  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
<<<PAGE 1144>>>
 
1144 
  
Rule 83.1.1 Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of 
authority vested in it by the Legislature of the State of Mississippi as per Section 
43-11-13 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, the Mississippi State 
Department of Health does hereby adopt and promulgate the following Rules, 
Regulations, and Minimum Standards for Adult Foster Care Facilities.  Upon 
adoption of these Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards, all former rules, 
regulations and minimum standards in conflict therewith, previously adopted by 
the licensing agency, are hereby repealed. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.1.2 Codes and Ordinances.  Every licensed facility located inside the boundaries of 
a municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and ordinances 
applicable thereto.  In addition, each licensed facility shall comply with all 
applicable state and federal laws. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.1.3 Fire Safety.  No facility may be licensed until it shows conformance to the 
safety regulations providing minimum standards for prevention and detection of 
fire as well as for protection of life and property against fire. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.1.4 Duty to Report.  All fires, explosions, natural disasters as well as avoidable 
deaths, or avoidable, serious, or life-threatening injuries to residents resulting 
from fires, explosions, and natural disasters shall be reported by telephone to the 
Life Safety Code Division of the licensing agency by the next working day after 
the occurrence 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 2. DEFINITIONS 
Rule 83.2.1 Adult Foster Care.  The term “adult foster care” shall mean the provision of 
services to individuals who require personal care services through individualized 
plans of care which provide a variety of health, social, and related support 
services in a protective setting, enabling persons to live in the community. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.2. Ambulation.  The terms “ambulation” or “ambulatory” shall mean the resident’s 
ability to bear weight, pivot, and safely walk independently or with the use of a 
cane, walker, or other mechanical supportive device (i.e., including, but not 
limited to, a wheelchair).  A resident who requires a wheelchair must be capable 
of transferring to and propelling the wheelchair independently or with prompting. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1145>>>
 
1145 
  
Rule 83.2.3 Criminal History Record Checks.  
1. Employee.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and criminal background 
history checks, employee shall mean any individual employed by a licensed 
entity.  The term “employee”, also includes any individual who by contract 
with the facility provides patient care in a patient’s, resident’s, or client’s 
room or in treatment rooms. The term employee does not include healthcare 
professional/technical students, as defined in Section 37-29-232, performing 
clinical training in a licensed entity under contracts between their schools and 
the licensed entity, and does not include students at high schools who 
observe the treatment and care of patients in a licensed entity as part of the 
requirements of an allied health course taught in the school if: 
a. The student is under the supervision of a licensed healthcare provider; 
and 
b. The student has signed the affidavit that is on file at the student’s 
school stating that he or she has not been convicted of or plead guilty 
or nolo contendere to a felony of possession or sale of drugs, murder, 
manslaughter, armed robbery, rape, sexual battery, any sexual offenses 
listed in section 45-33-23 (g), child abuse, arson, grand larceny, 
burglary, gratification of lust, aggravated assault, or felonious abuse 
and/or battery of a vulnerable adult, or that any such conviction or plea 
was reversed on appeal or a pardon was granted for the conviction or 
plea. 
c. Further, applicants and employees of the University of Mississippi 
Medical Center for whom criminal history record checks and 
fingerprinting are obtained in accordance with Section 37-115-41 are 
exempt from application of the term employee under Section 43-11-
13. 
2. Covered Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, “covered 
entity” means a licensed entity, or a healthcare professional staffing agency. 
3. Licensed Entity.  For the purpose of criminal history record checks, the term 
“licensed entity” means an adult foster care facility, hospital, nursing home, 
personal care home, home health agency or hospice. 
4. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Academic Program.  For 
the purpose of criminal history record checks, “health care 
professional/vocational technical academic program” means an academic 
program in medicine, nursing, dentistry, occupational therapy, physical 
therapy, social services, speech therapy, or other allied-health professional 
whose purpose is to prepare professionals to render patient care services. 
<<<PAGE 1146>>>
 
1146 
  
5. Health Care Professional/Vocational Technical Student.  For purposes of 
criminal history record checks, the term means a student enrolled in a 
healthcare professional/vocational technical academic program. 
6. Direct Patient Care or Services.  For the purposes of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “direct patient care” means 
direct hands-on medical patient care and services provided by an individual in 
a patient, resident or client’s room, treatment room or recovery room. 
Individuals providing direct patient care may be directly employed by the 
facility or employed on a contractual basis. 
7. Documented Disciplinary Action.  For the purpose of fingerprinting and 
criminal background history checks, the term “documented disciplinary 
action” means any action taken against an employee for abuse or neglect of a 
patient. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.4 Facility.  The term “facility” shall mean any home or institution that (1) has 
sought or is currently seeking designation as a “licensed facility” under the terms 
of these regulations; or (2) is  operating a home or institution unlawfully which, 
by its nature and operational intent, is required to be a licensed facility under the 
terms of these regulations. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.5 Immediate Jeopardy (Serious and Immediate to Health and Safety).  A situation 
in which the licensed facility’s failure to meet one or more regulatory 
requirements has caused, or is likely to cause, serious injury, harm, impairment, 
or death to a resident. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.6 Licensing Agency.  The term "licensing agency" shall mean the Mississippi 
State Department of Health 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.7 IGRA(s) (Interferon-Gamma Release Assay(s).  A whole blood test used in to 
assist in diagnosing Mycobacterium Tuberculosis infection.   The IGRA blood 
test used must be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.8 Licensed Facility.  The term “licensed facility” shall mean adult foster care 
facility which has been issued a license for operation by the licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1147>>>
 
1147 
  
Rule 83.2.9 Mantoux Test.  A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting one-
tenth (0.1) milliliter of purified protein derivative-tuberculin containing five (5) 
tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm 
with a needle and syringe.  The area is examined between forty-eight (48) and 
seventy-two (72) hours after the injection.  A reaction is measured according to 
the size of the induration.  The classification of a reaction as positive or negative 
depends on the patient’s medical history and various risk factors (see definition 
for significant tuberculin skin test.  This test is used to evaluate the likelihood 
that a person is infected with M. tuberculosis. .   The Mantoux (TST) test should 
be administered only by persons certified in the intradermal technique. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.10 Medication Administration. For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
“medication administration” is limited to these decisions, made by someone 
other than the person for whom the medication has been prescribed, regarding 
(1) which medication is to be taken, (2) the dosage of the medication, or (3) the 
time at which the medication is to be taken. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule.83.2.11  Medication Assistance.  For the purposes of these regulations, the term 
“medication assistance” is any form of delivering medication which has been 
prescribed which is not defined as “medication administration” including, but not 
limited to, the physical act of handing an oral prescription medication to the 
patient along with liquids to assist the patient in swallowing. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.12 Personal Care.  The term "personal care" shall mean the assistance rendered by 
personnel of the licensed facility to residents in performing one or more of the 
activities of daily living, including but not limited to bathing, walking, excretory 
functions, feeding, personal grooming, and dressing. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.13 Plan of Care. (Care Plan)  A written document established and maintained for 
each resident admitted to the licensed Adult Foster Care Facility. Care provided 
to a resident must be in accordance with the plan. The plan must include a 
comprehensive assessment of the individual’s needs and the identification of 
services needed to attain or maintain the resident’s highest practicable physical, 
mental, and psychosocial well-being. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.14 Significant Tuberculin Skin Test.  An induration of five (5) millimeters or 
greater is significant (or positive) in the following: 
<<<PAGE 1148>>>
 
1148 
  
8. Persons known to have or suspected of having human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV). 
9. Close contacts of a person with infectious tuberculosis. 
10. Persons who have a chest radiograph suggestive of previous tuberculosis. 
11. Persons who inject drugs (if HIV status is unknown). 
An induration of ten (10) millimeters or greater is significant (or positive) in all 
other persons tested in Mississippi.  A tuberculin skin test is recorded in 
millimeters of induration.  For accurate results, measure the widest diameter of 
the palpable induration transverse (across) the arm. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.15 Supervision.   Supervision means guidance of the resident as the individual 
carries out activities of daily living including reminding a resident to maintain 
his/her medication schedule as directed by his/her physician, reminding him/her 
of important activities to be carried out, assisting him/her in keeping appointments 
and being aware of his/her general whereabouts even though he/she may travel 
independently about the community. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.16 Surveyor.  The term "surveyor" shall mean an individual employed, or hired on a 
contractual basis, by the licensing agency for the purpose of conducting surveys, 
inspections, investigations, or other related functions as part of the licensing 
agency’s responsibilities for licensure and regulation of institutions for the aged 
and infirm. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.2.17 Two-step Testing.  A procedure used for the baseline testing of person who will 
periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., health care workers) to reduce the 
likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection.  If the initial 
tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated one (1) to 
three (3) weeks later.  If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably 
represents a boosted reaction.  If the second test is also negative, the person is 
classified as not infected.  A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate 
new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in the person. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 3. PROCEDURE GOVERNING ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT 
<<<PAGE 1149>>>
 
1149 
  
Rule 83.3.1 Authority.  The licensing agency shall have the power to adopt, amend, 
promulgate and enforce such rules, regulations and minimum standards as it 
deems appropriate, within the law. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 4. INSPECTION 
Rule 83.4.1 Inspections Required.  Each licensed facility shall be inspected by the licensing 
agency or by persons delegated with authority by said licensing agency at such 
intervals as the licensing agency may direct.  The licensing agency and/or its 
authorized representatives shall have the right to inspect construction work in 
progress.  New facilities shall not be licensed without having first been inspected 
for compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum standards. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 5. CLASSIFICATION 
Rule 83.5.1 Adult Foster Care Facility.  The term “Adult Foster Care Facility” means a 
home setting for vulnerable adults in the community who are unable to live 
independently due to physical, emotional, developmental or mental impairments, 
or in need of emergency and continuing protective social services for purposes of 
preventing further abuse or neglect and for safeguarding and enhancing the 
welfare of the abused or neglected vulnerable adult. Adult foster care programs 
shall be designed to meet the needs of the vulnerable adults with impairments 
through individual plans of care, which provide a variety of health, social and 
related support services in a protective setting, enabling participants to live in the 
community.  Adult Foster Care programs may be:  
1. Traditional, where the foster care provider lives in the residence and is the 
primary caregiver to clients in the home; 
2. Corporate, where the foster care home is operated by a corporation or other 
entity with shift staff delivery services to clients; or 
3. Shelter, where the foster care home accepts clients on an emergency short-
term basis for up to thirty (30) days. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 6. TYPES OF LICENSE 
Rule 83.6.1 Regular License.  A license shall be issued to each facility that meets the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. Each license shall be issued under 
one of the following classes: 
<<<PAGE 1150>>>
 
1150 
  
1. Traditional, where the foster care provider lives in the residence and is the 
primary caregiver to clients in the home; 
2. Corporate, where the foster care home is operated by a corporation or other 
entity with shift staff delivery services to clients; or 
3. Shelter, where the foster care home accepts clients on an emergency short-
term basis for up to thirty (30) days.  The licensing agency shall have the 
power and authority to waive any provision herein it deems appropriate for 
any license issued for the Shelter class facility.  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.6.2 Provisional License.  Within its discretion, the licensing agency may issue a 
provisional license only if the licensing agency is satisfied that preparations are 
being made to qualify for regular license and that the health and safety of 
residents will not be endangered. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 7. APPLICATION OR RENEWAL OF LICENSE 
Rule 83.7.1 Rule 83.7.1 Application.  Application for a license or renewal of a license 
shall be made in writing to the licensing agency, on forms provided by the 
licensing agency, which shall contain such information as the licensing agency 
may require. 
Source:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.7.2 Fees. 
1. Each application for initial licensure or renewal licensure for an adult foster 
care facility, unless suspended or revoked, shall be accompanied by an 
application license fee in an amount set by the Board, for each person or 
bed of licensed capacity, with a minimum fee, set by the Board, per home 
or institution, which shall be made payable to the Mississippi State 
Department of Health, either by business check, money order, or electronic 
means. Fees are non-refundable. 
2.  Applicants for initial licensure, or licensees, shall pay a user fee, in an amount 
set by the Board, and shall be made payable to the Mississippi State 
Department of Health, either by check, money order or electronic  means 
when it is required to review and/or inspect the proposal of any licensed 
facility in which there are additions, renovations, modernizations, 
expansions, alterations, conversions, modifications, or replacements. Fees  
are non-refundable. 
Source:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1151>>>
 
1151 
  
Rule 83.7.3 Name of Facility.  Only the official name, as approved by the licensing agency 
and by which the facility is licensed shall be used in telephone listing, on 
stationery, in advertising, etc. 
Source:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.7.4 Number of Beds.  The maximum number of beds for which the facility is 
licensed shall not be exceeded. 
Source:  Miss. Code Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 8. LICENSING 
Rule 83.8.1 Issuance of License. All licenses issued by the licensing agency shall set forth 
the name of the facility, the location, the name of the licensee, the classification 
of the facility, the type of building, the bed capacity for which the facility is 
licensed and the licensed number. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.8.2 Posting of License.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the 
licensed premises and shall be available for review by an interested person.  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.8.3 License Not Transferable.  The license is not transferable or assignable to any 
other person except by written approval of the licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 9. DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE 
Rule 83.9.1 Denial or Revocation of License:  Hearings and Review.  The licensing 
agency, after notice and opportunity for a hearing to the applicant or licensee, is 
authorized to deny, suspend, or revoke a license, or deny renewal of a license, in 
any case in which it finds that there has been a substantial failure to comply with 
the requirements established under the law and these regulations.  Also, the 
following shall be grounds for denial or revocation of license: 
1. Fraud on the part of the licensee in applying for a license, or renewal of 
license. 
2. Willful or repeated violations by the licensee of any of the provisions of 
Sections 43-11-1 et seq, of the Mississippi Code of 1972, as amended, and/or 
of the rules, regulations, and minimum standards established by the licensing 
agency. 
<<<PAGE 1152>>>
 
1152 
  
3. Addiction to narcotic drug(s) by the licensee or other employees or personnel 
of the licensed facility. 
4. Use of alcoholic beverages by the licensee or other personnel of the licensed 
facility to the extent which threatens the well-being or safety of the residents. 
5. Conviction of the licensee of a felony. 
6. Publicly misrepresenting the licensed facility and/or its services. 
7. Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any unlawful act. 
8. Conduct or practices detrimental to the health or safety of residents and 
employees of said licensed facility.  Detrimental practices include but are not 
limited to: 
a. Cruelty to a resident or indifference to the needs which are essential to 
the general well-being and health. 
b. Misappropriation of the money or property of a resident. 
c. Failure to provide food adequate for the needs of a resident. 
d. Inadequate staff to provide safe care and supervision of a resident. 
e. Failure to call a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant 
when required by a resident’s condition. 
f. Failure to notify next of kin when a resident’s condition becomes 
critical. 
g. Admission of a resident whose condition demands care beyond the 
level of care provided by the licensed facility as determined by its 
classification, including but not limited to the failure to ensure that a 
care plan was developed within twenty-four (24) hours of admission if 
not developed prior to admission for a resident admitted to the licensed 
facility, and that care plans are continually revised as necessary for the 
resident to attain their highest practicable physical, mental, and 
psychosocial well-being. 
h. For failure to implement the plan of care for a resident admitted to the 
licensed facility. 
9. A violation of 24-hour supervision requirement and/or the transfer of a 
resident(s) from the licensed facility to any unlicensed facility may result in 
the facility’s license being made provisional for a period of 90 days.  At the 
end of that 90-day period, if corrective actions have not been taken by the 
licensed facility, that Provisional License may be revoked. 
<<<PAGE 1153>>>
 
1153 
  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.9.2 Immediate Revocation of License:  Pursuant to Section 41-3-15, the State 
Department of Health is authorized and empowered, to revoke, immediately, the 
license and require closure of any institution for the aged or infirm, including any 
other remedy less than closure to protect the health and safety of the residents of 
said institution or the health and safety of the general public. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 10. PROVISION FOR HEARING AND APPEAL FOLLOWING 
DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PENALTIES 
Rule 83.10.1 Administrative Decision.  The licensing agency will provide an opportunity for 
a fair hearing to every applicant or licensee who is dissatisfied with 
administrative decisions made in the denial or revocation of license. 
1. The licensing agency shall notify the applicant or licensee by registered mail 
or personal service the particular reasons for the proposed denial or 
revocation of license.  Upon written request of applicant or licensee within 
ten (10) days of the date of notification, the licensing agency shall fix a date 
within thirty (30) days from the date of such service at which time the 
applicant or licensee shall be given an opportunity for a prompt and fair 
hearing. 
2. On the basis of such hearing or upon default of the applicant or licensee, the 
licensing agency shall make a determination specifying its findings of fact 
and conclusions of law.  A copy of such determination shall be sent by 
registered mail to the last known address of the applicant or licensee or 
served personally upon the applicant or licensee. 
3. The decision revoking, suspending, or denying the application or license 
shall become final thirty (30) days after it is so mailed or served unless the 
applicant or licensee, within such thirty (30) day period, appeals the decision 
in Chancery Court pursuant to Section 43-11-23 of the Mississippi Code of 
1972. An additional period of time may be granted at the discretion of the 
licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.10.2 Penalties.  Any person establishing, conducting, managing, or operating facility 
without a license shall be declared in violation of these regulations and may be 
punished as set forth in the enabling statute.  Further, any person who violates 
any provision of the enabling statute, or of these regulations promulgated 
thereto shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Such 
misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be punishable as referenced in Section 43-
11-25 of the Mississippi Code of 1972, Annotated. 
<<<PAGE 1154>>>
 
1154 
  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.10.3 Ban on Admissions.  If a condition of immediate jeopardy exists at a licensed 
facility, written notice of the determination of the condition shall be provided by 
the licensing agency to the licensed facility, along with the notification that a 
ban on all admissions is to be imposed five (5) calendar days after the receipt of 
the notice by the licensed facility.  If the licensing agency’s determination of a 
condition of immediate jeopardy on the day of the licensure visit/survey is 
confirmed, a ban on all admissions shall be imposed until the licensed facility 
achieves compliance and such compliance is verified by the licensing agency.  
The licensing agency will verify the licensed facility’s corrective actions as 
soon as possible after the licensing agency receives a plan of correction from 
the licensed facility. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 11. ADMINISTRATION 
Rule 83.11.1 Operator.  There shall be a full-time employee designated as operator of the 
licensed facility who shall be responsible for the management of the licensed 
facility.  The operator shall be at least twenty-one years of age and shall be a 
high school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall not be a resident of the 
licensed facility. The operator shall have verification that he is not listed on the 
"Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."  When the operator is not within the 
licensed facility, there shall be an individual onsite at the licensed facility who 
shall represent the operator, and be capable of assuming the responsibility of 
operator.  Said person must be at least twenty-one (21) years or age and shall be 
a high school graduate, or have passed the GED, and shall have verification that 
he is not listed on the "Mississippi Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."   
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.2 Other Personnel.  All direct care employees shall be a minimum of 18 years of 
age, and shall have verification that they are not listed on the "Mississippi 
Nurses Aide Abuse Registry."  Personnel shall receive training on a quarterly 
basis on topics and issues related to the population being served in the licensed 
facility.  Training shall be documented by a narrative of the content and 
signatures of those attending.  Personnel shall be employed and on duty, awake, 
and fully dressed to provide personal care to the residents.  The following 
staffing ratio shall apply: 
1. one (1) resident attendant per fifteen (15) or fewer residents for the hours of 
7:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m. 
2. one (1) resident attendant per twenty-five (25) or fewer residents for the 
hours of 7:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1155>>>
 
1155 
  
Rule 83.11.3 Criminal History Record Checks. 
1. The covered entity shall require to be performed a disciplinary check with the 
professional licensing agency, if any, for each employee to determine if any 
disciplinary action has been taken against the employee by the agency, and a 
criminal history check on: 
a. Every new employee of a covered entity who provides direct patient 
care or services and who is employed after or on July 01, 2003, and 
b. Every employee of a covered entity employed prior to July 01, 2003, 
who has documented disciplinary action by his or her present 
employer. 
2. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no employee hired on or 
after July 1, 2003, shall be permitted to provide direct patient care until the 
results of the criminal history record check revealed no disqualifying record 
or the employee has been granted a waiver.  Provide the covered entity has 
documented evidence of submission of fingerprints for the background 
check, any person may be employed and provide direct patient care on a 
temporary basis pending the results of the criminal history record check buy 
any employment offer, contract, or arrangement with the person shall be 
voidable if he/she receives a disqualifying criminal record check and no 
waiver is granted. 
3. If such criminal history record check discloses a felony conviction; a guilty 
plea; and/or a plea of nolo contendere to a felony for one (1) or more of the 
following crimes which has not been reversed on appeal, or for which a 
pardon has not been granted, the applicant/employee shall not be eligible to 
be employed at the license facility: 
a. possession or sale of drugs 
b. murder 
c. manslaughter 
d. armed robbery 
e. rape 
f. sexual battery 
g. sex offense listed in Section 45-33-23, Mississippi Code of 1972 
h. child abuse 
i. arson 
<<<PAGE 1156>>>
 
1156 
  
j. grand larceny 
k. burglary 
l. gratification of lust 
m. aggravated assault 
n. felonious abuse and/or battery of vulnerable adult 
4. Documentation of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status, if any, 
with the employee’s professional licensing agency as applicable, and 
evidence of submission of the employee’s fingerprints to the licensing 
agency must be on file and maintained by the facility prior to the new 
employees first date of employment.  The covered entity shall maintain on 
file evidence of verification of the employee’s disciplinary status from any 
applicable professional licensing agency and of submission and/or 
completion of the criminal record check, the signed affidavit, if applicable, 
and/or a copy of the referenced notarized letter addressing the individual’s 
suitability for such employment. 
5. The licensing agency may charge the licensed entity submitting the 
fingerprints a fee not to exceed Fifty Dollars ($50.00). 
6. Should results of an employee applicant’s criminal history record check 
reveal no disqualifying event, then the covered entity shall, within two (2) 
weeks of the notification of no disqualifying event, provide the employee 
applicant with a notarized letter signed by the chief executive officer of the 
covered entity, or his or her authorized designee, confirming the employee 
applicant’s suitability for employment based on his or her criminal history 
record check.  An employee applicant may use that letter for a period of two 
(2) years from the date of the letter to seek employment at any covered entity 
licensed by the Mississippi State Department of Health without the necessity 
of an additional criminal record check.  Any covered entity presented with 
the letter may rely on the letter with respect to an employee applicant’s 
criminal background and is not required for a period of two (2) years from 
the date of the letter to conduct or have conducted a criminal history record 
check as required in this subsection. 
7. For individuals contracted through a third party who provide direct patient 
care as defined herein, the covered entity shall require proof of a criminal 
history record check. 
8. The licensing agency, the covered entity, and their agents, officers, 
employees, attorneys and representatives, shall be presumed to be acting in 
good faith for any employment decision or action taken under this section.  
The presumption of good faith may be overcome by a preponderance of the 
evidence in any civil action.  No licensing agency, covered entity, nor their 
<<<PAGE 1157>>>
 
1157 
  
agents, officers, employees, attorneys and representatives shall be held liable 
in any employment discrimination suit in which an allegation of 
discrimination is made regarding an employment decision authorized under 
this section. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.4 Employee's Health Status. All licensed facility personnel shall receive a health 
screening by a licensed physician, a nurse practitioner/physician assistant, or a 
registered nurse prior to employment and annually thereafter. Records of this 
health screening shall be kept on file in the licensed facility. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.5 Employee Testing for Tuberculosis 
 
1. Each employee, upon employment of a licensed entity and prior to 
contact with any patient/client, shall be evaluated for tuberculosis by one 
of the following methods: 
 
d. IGRA (blood test) and an evaluation of the individual 
for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis by medical 
personnel; or 
 
e. A two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test administered and 
read by a licensed medical/nursing person certified in the 
techniques of tuberculin testing and an evaluation of the 
individual for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis by a 
licensed Physician, Physician’s Assistant, Nurse 
Practitioner or a Registered Nurse. 
 
2. The IGRA/Mantoux testing and the evaluation of signs/symptoms may 
be administered/conducted on the date of hire or administered/read no 
more than 30 days prior to the individual’s date of hire; however, the 
individual must not be allowed contact with a patient or work in areas of 
the RBIR where patients have access until receipt of the results of the 
IGRA/assessment or at least the first of the two-step Mantoux test has 
been administered/read and assessment for the signs and symptoms 
completed. 
 
3. If the Mantoux test is administered, results must be documented in 
millimeters. Documentation of the IGRA/TB skin test results and 
assessment must be documented in accordance with accepted standards 
of medical/nursing practice and must be placed in the individual’s 
personnel file no later than 7 days of the individual’s date of 
employment. If an IGRA is performed, results and quantitative values 
must be documented. 
<<<PAGE 1158>>>
 
1158 
  
 
4. Any employee noted to have a newly positive IGRA, a newly positive 
Mantoux skin test or signs/symptoms indicative of tuberculin disease 
(TB) that last longer than three weeks (regardless of the size of the 
skin test or results of the IGRA), shall have a chest x-ray interpreted by a 
board certified Radiologist and be evaluated for active tuberculosis by a 
licensed physician within 72 hours. The employee shall not be allowed 
to work in any area where clients have routine access until evaluated by a 
physician/nurse practitioner/physician assistant and approved to return. 
Exceptions to this requirement may be made if the employee is 
asymptomatic and: 
 
a. The individual is currently receiving or can provide 
documentation of having received a course of tuberculosis 
prophylactic therapy approved by the Mississippi State 
Department of Health (MSDH) Tuberculosis Program for 
tuberculosis infection, or 
 
b. The individual is currently receiving or can provide 
documentation of having received a course of multi-drug 
chemotherapy approved by the MSDH Tuberculosis Program; or 
 
c. The individual has a documented previous significant 
tuberculin skin reaction or IGRA reaction. 
 
5. For individuals noted to have a previous positive to either Mantoux 
testing  or the IGRA, annual re-evaluation for the signs and 
symptoms must be conducted and must be maintained as part of the 
employee’s annual health screening. A follow-up annual chest x-ray is 
NOT required unless symptoms of active tuberculosis develop. 
 
6. If using the Mantoux method, employees with a negative tuberculin skin 
test and a negative symptom assessment shall have the second step of 
the two- step Mantoux tuberculin skin test performed and documented in 
the employees’ personal record within fourteen (14) days of employment. 
 
7. The IGRA or the two-step protocol is to be used for each employee who 
has not been previously skin tested and/or for whom a negative test 
cannot be documented within the past 12 months. If the employer has 
documentation that the employee has had a negative TB skin test within 
the past 12 months, a single test performed thirty (30) days prior to 
employment or immediately upon hire will fulfill the two-step 
requirements. As above, the employee shall not have contact with 
clients or be allowed to work in areas of the RBIR to which clients have 
routine access prior to reading the skin test, completing a signs and 
symptoms assessment and documenting the results and findings. 
<<<PAGE 1159>>>
 
1159 
  
 
8. Facilities shall comply with recommendations from the Centers for 
Disease Control and/or the Mississippi State Department of Health 
regarding baseline employee TB testing and routine serial employee TB 
testing and education. Staff exposed to an active infectious case of 
tuberculosis shall be treated as contacts and be managed appropriately. 
Individuals found to have a significant Mantoux tuberculin skin test 
reaction and a chest x-ray not suggestive of active tuberculosis, shall 
be evaluated by a physician or nurse practitioner/physician assistant for 
treatment of latent tuberculin infection. 
 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.6  Admission Agreement.  Prior to, or at the time of admission, the operator and 
the resident or the resident's responsible party shall execute in writing a 
financial agreement.  This agreement shall be prepared and signed in two or 
more copies, one copy given to the resident or his/her responsible party, and one 
copy placed on file in the licensed facility. 
1. As a minimum, this agreement shall contain specifically: 
a. Basic charges agreed upon (room, board, laundry, and personal care). 
b. Period to be covered in the charges. 
c. Services for which special charges are made. 
d. Agreement regarding refunds for any payments made in advance. 
e. A statement that the operator shall make the resident's responsible 
party aware, in a timely manner, of any changes in resident's status, 
including those which require transfer and discharge; or operators who 
have been designated as a resident's responsible party shall ensure 
prompt and efficient action to meet resident's needs. 
2. No agreement or contract shall be entered into between the licensee and the 
resident or his responsible agent which will relieve the licensee of the 
responsibility for the protection of the person and personal property of the 
individual admitted to the licensed facility for care. 
3. Any funds given or provided for the purpose of supplying services to any 
patient in any licensed facility, and any funds otherwise received and held 
from, for or on behalf of any such resident, shall be deposited by the director 
or other proper officer of the licensed facility to the credit of that patient in 
an account which shall be known as the Resident's Personal Deposit Fund. 
No more than one (1) month charge for the care, support, maintenance, and 
medical attention of the patient shall be applied from such account at any one 
<<<PAGE 1160>>>
 
1160 
  
(1) time. After the death, discharge, or transfer of any resident for whose 
benefit any such fund has been provided, any unexpended balance remaining 
in his personal deposit fund shall be applied for the payment of care, cost of 
support, maintenance, and medical attention which is accrued. In the event 
any unexpended balance remains in that resident's personal deposit fund after 
complete reimbursement has been made for payment of care, support, 
maintenance, and medical attention, and the director or other proper officer 
of the licensed facility has been or shall be unable to locate the person or 
persons entitled to such unexpended balance. The director or other property 
officer shall treat the unexpended balance in compliance with the Uniform 
Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act. 
4. The resident or his responsible party shall be furnished a receipt signed by 
the licensee of the licensed facility or his lawful agent, for all sums of money 
paid to the licensed facility. 
5. Written notification shall be given to the resident/responsible party when 
basic charges and/or licensed facility policies change. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.7  Records and Reports 
 
1. The operator shall maintain a record of the residents for whom he or she 
serves as the conservator or a representative payee.  This record shall include 
evidence of the means by which the conservatorship or representative payee 
relationship was established and evidence of separate accounts in a bank for 
each resident whose conservator or representative payee is the operator of the 
licensed facility. 
2. Inspection reports from the licensing agency, any branch or division thereof 
by the operator in the licensed facility, and submitted to the licensing agency 
as required, or when requested. 
3. Resident records shall contain the following: 
a. Admission agreement(s) and financial statements. 
b. Residents' rights and licensed facility’s rules, signed, dated, and 
witnessed. 
c. Medical evaluation and referral from physician or nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant. 
d. Current medication record, including any reactions to such medication. 
e. Social services and activity contacts. 
<<<PAGE 1161>>>
 
1161 
  
f. General information form. 
g. Representative payee statement, if applicable. 
h. Physician orders or nurse practitioner/physician assistant orders 
(including, but not limited to, therapies, diets, medications, etc.) and 
medication administration records. 
i. The resident’s current Plan of Care.  In addition, the facility shall 
maintain documented evidence of the Plans of Care previously in 
effect in the resident’s record and shall be available for review by the 
licensing agency throughout the resident’s stay in the licensed facility 
until thirty (30) days from the date the resident is discharged from the 
facility. 
j. The resident’s grievances and complaints during his/her stay in the 
licensed facility shall be maintained which shall include copies of all 
the resident’s grievances or complaints filed in chronological order. 
The facility’s report to the grievance shall be maintained in the record 
and shall include the nature of the complaint, the date of the complaint 
and a statement indicating how the issue was resolved. 
4. The records as described in this section shall be made available to the 
resident, the resident’s family, or other responsible party for the resident 
upon reasonable request. 
5. Reporting of Tuberculosis Testing.  The facility shall report and comply with 
the annual MSDH TB Program surveillance procedures. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.8 Licensed Facility Policies.  Written policies shall be available which indicate 
services to be provided, and which include policies including but not limited to 
admission, transfer and discharge of residents and for developing, revising, and 
implementing plans of care by qualified personnel in accordance with state law 
for residents admitted to the licensed facility. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.11.9 Written Grievance Policy. The licensed facility shall have a written grievance 
policy which outlines the procedures to be followed by a resident in presenting a 
grievance to the licensee concerning the care received by the resident in the 
adult foster care facility.  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1162>>>
 
1162 
  
Rule 83.11.10 Residents' Rights.  These rights and licensed facility rules must be in writing 
and be made available to all residents, employees, sponsors, and posted for 
public viewing.  Each resident shall: 
1. Have the right to attend religious and other activities of his/her choice. 
2. Have the right to manage his/her personal financial affairs, or is given at least 
a quarterly accounting of financial transactions made on his/her behalf should 
the facility accept the written delegation from the resident or from his/her 
responsible party of this responsibility to the facility for any period of time in 
conformance with State law. 
3. Not be required to perform services for the licensed facility. 
4. Have the right to communicate with persons of his/her choice, and may 
receive mail unopened or in compliance with the policies of the home. 
5. Be treated with consideration, kindness, respect, and full recognition of 
his/her dignity and individuality. 
6. May retain and use personal clothing and possessions as space permits. 
7. Have the right to voice grievances and complaints to the licensee regarding 
the care he/she is receiving in the licensed facility and recommend changes in 
licensed facility policies and services. 
8. Shall not be confined to the licensed facility against his/her will, and shall be 
allowed to move about in the community at liberty.  Physical and/or chemical 
restraints are prohibited. 
9. Not be limited in his/her choice of a pharmacy or pharmacist provider in 
accordance with State Law. 
10. Has the right to participate in their care planning and review his/her care 
plan, or the resident’s responsible party has the right to review the resident’s 
care plan when acting on behalf of the resident.  Additionally, the resident 
has the right to refuse treatment in accordance with their Plan of Care. 
However, whenever there appears to be a conflict between a resident’s right 
and the resident’s health or safety, the licensed facility should accommodate 
both the exercise of the resident’s rights and the resident’s health, including 
exploration of care alternatives through a thorough care planning process in 
which the resident may participate. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 12. MEDICAL AND PERSONAL CARE SERVICES 
<<<PAGE 1163>>>
 
1163 
  
Rule 83.12.1 Admission and Discharge.  The following criteria must be applied and 
maintained for resident placement in a licensed facility.   
1. A person shall not be admitted or continue to reside in a licensed facility if 
the person: 
a. Is not ambulatory; 
b. Requires physical restraints; 
c. Poses a serious threat to himself or herself or others; 
d. Requires nasopharyngeal and/or tracheotomy suctioning; 
e. Requires gastric feedings; 
f. Requires intravenous fluids, medications, or feedings; 
g. Requires a indwelling urinary catheter; 
h. Requires sterile wound care; or 
i. Requires treatment of decubitus ulcer or exfoliative dermatitis. 
j. Upon admission or within 24 hours of admission, the adult foster care 
facility shall develop and document an individualized plan of care for 
each resident admitted to the facility.  
2. Licensed facilities which are not accessible to individuals with disabilities 
through the A.N.S.I. Standards as they relate to facility accessibility may not 
accept wheelchair bound residents.  Only those persons who, in an 
emergency, would be physically and mentally capable of traveling to safety 
may be accepted. For multilevel facilities, no residents may be placed above 
the ground floor level that are unable to descend the stairs unassisted. 
3. The licensed facility must be able to identify at the time of admission and 
during continued stay those residents whose needs for services are consistent 
with these rules and regulations, and those residents who should be 
transferred to an appropriate level of care. 
4. The licensed facility which accepts and admits residents requiring mental 
health services shall help arrange transportation to mental health 
appointments and cooperate with the community mental health center or 
other provider of mental health care, as necessary, to ensure access to and the 
coordination of care, within limits of the confidentiality and privacy rights of 
the individual receiving services.   
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1164>>>
 
1164 
  
Rule 83.12.2 Medical Evaluation.  Each person applying for admission to a licensed facility 
shall be given a thorough examination by a licensed physician or certified nurse 
practitioner/physician assistant within thirty (30) days prior to admission. The 
examination shall indicate the appropriateness of admission, according to the 
above criteria, to a licensed facility with an annual update by a physician and/or 
nurse practitioner/physician assistant. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.12.3 Admission Requirements to Rule Out Active Tuberculosis (TB) 
  
1. The following are to be performed and documented within 30 days prior to the 
resident’s admission to the “Licensed facility”: 
a. TB signs and symptoms assessment by a licensed Physician, Physician 
Assistant or a Licensed Nurse Practitioner, and 
b. A chest x-ray taken and a written interpretation. 
2. Admission to the facility shall be based on the results of the required tests as 
follows: 
a. Residents with an abnormal chest x-ray and/or signs and symptoms 
assessment shall have the first step of a two-step Mantoux tuberculin skin test 
(TST) placed and read by certified personnel OR an IGRA (blood test) drawn 
and results documented within 30 days prior to the patient’s admission to the 
“Licensed facility”.  Evaluation for active TB shall be at the recommendation 
of the MSDH and shall be prior to admission.  If TB is ruled out  and the first 
step of the TST is negative, the second step of the two-step TST shall be 
completed and documented within 10-21 days of admission.  TST 
administration and reading shall be done by certified personnel. If an IGRA 
(blood test) is done, TST (first and/or second step) is not done. 
b. Residents with a normal chest x-ray and no signs or symptoms of TB shall 
have a baseline IGRA test (blood test) OR a TST performed with the initial 
step of  the two-step Mantoux TST placed on or within 30 days prior to the day 
of admission.  IF TST is done, the second step shall be completed within 10-21 
days of the first step.  TST administration and reading shall be done by 
certified personnel. If an IGRA (blood test) is done, a TST is not done (first or 
second step). 
c. Residents with a significant TST OR positive IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing or who have documented prior significant TST shall be 
monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of active TB (cough, sputum 
production, chest pain, fever, weight loss, or night sweats, especially if the 
symptoms have lasted longer than three weeks) and if these symptoms develop, 
shall have an evaluation for TB per the recommendations of the MSDH within 
72 hours.  
<<<PAGE 1165>>>
 
1165 
  
d. Residents with a non significant TST or negative IGRA (blood test) upon 
baseline testing shall have an annual  tuberculosis testing within thirty (30) 
days of the anniversary of their last test. Note: Once IGRA testing is used, 
IGRA testing should continue to be used rather than TST testing. 
e. Residents with a new significant TST or newly positive IGRA (blood test) 
on annual testing shall be evaluated for active TB by a nurse practitioner or 
physician or physician assistant.   
h. Active or suspected Active TB Admission.  If a resident has or is suspected to 
have active TB, prior written approval for admission to the facility is required 
from the MSDH TB State Medical Consultant. 
i. Exceptions to TST/ IGRA requirement may be made if: 
iii. Resident has prior documentation of a significant TST/ positive IGRA. 
iv. Resident has received or is receiving a MSDH approved treatment regimen for 
latent TB infection or for active TB disease. 
v. Resident is excluded by a licensed physician or nurse practitioner/physician 
assistant due to medical contraindications. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.12.4 Transfer to another facility or return of resident to respite care shall be 
based on the above tests (Section 111.03) if done within the past 12 months and 
the patient has no signs and symptoms of TB. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.12.5 Transfer to a Hospital or Visit to a Physician Office.  If a resident has signs 
or symptoms of active TB (i.e., is a TB suspect) the facility shall notify the 
MSDH, the hospital, transporting staff, and physician’s office prior to 
transferring the resident to a hospital. Appropriate isolation and evaluation shall 
be the responsibility of the hospital and physician. If a resident has or is 
suspected to have active TB, prior written approval for admission or 
readmission to the facility is required from the MSDH TB State Consultant. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 13. FOOD SERVICE 
Rule 83.13.1 Meals.  The licensed facility shall provide residents with well-planned, 
attractive, and satisfying meals at least three (3) times daily, seven (7) days a 
week, which will meet their nutritional, social, emotional and therapeutic needs.  
The daily food allowance shall meet the current recommended dietary 
allowances. 
<<<PAGE 1166>>>
 
1166 
  
1. Meals shall be planned one (1) week in advance.  Not more than 15 hours 
shall elapse between the evening and morning meal. A record of meals 
served shall be maintained for a one (1) month period.  Current menus must 
be posted and dated. 
2. A record of all food purchases shall be maintained in the licensed facility for 
a one (1) month period. 
3. All food served in licensed facilities shall comply with the following: 
a. No game or home canned foods shall be served; and 
b. Other than fresh or frozen vegetables and fruit, all foods must be from 
commercial sources. 
4. All meals for residents who require therapeutic diets shall be planned by a 
Licensed Dietitian.  If a therapeutic diet is prescribed by the physician for the 
resident, the licensed dietitian shall visit the licensed facility at a minimum of 
once every thirty (30) days, and shall file a consulting report with the 
licensed facility. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.13.2 Physical Facilities.  
1. A licensed facility with sixteen (16) or more residents shall obtain a Food 
Service Permit from the Mississippi State Department of Health.  
2. A licensed facility with fifteen (15) or fewer residents shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in the Facility Inspection Report issued by the 
Mississippi State Department of Health. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.13.3 Dietary Staffing. 
1. Licensed facilities shall have an employee dedicated to meal preparation and 
food service. 
2. All employees engaged in handling, preparation and/or serving of food shall 
wear clean clothing at all times. 
3. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wear hair 
nets, head bands, or caps to prevent the falling of hair. 
4. All employees engaged in handling and/or preparation of food shall wash 
their hands thoroughly before starting to work and immediately after contact 
with any soiled matter. 
<<<PAGE 1167>>>
 
1167 
  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 14. DRUG HANDLING 
Rule 83.14.1 Restrictions.  Licensed facilities shall be restricted in the quantity and classes 
of drugs allowed in the licensed facility. 
1. No Schedule I drugs shall be allowed in the licensed facility.  Residents 
requiring administration of Schedule II Narcotics as defined in the Uniform 
Controlled Substances Law may be admitted to an adult foster care facility.  
Schedule drugs may only be allowed in an adult foster care facility if they are 
administered or stored utilizing proper procedures under the direct 
supervision of a licensed physician or nurse. 
2. The licensed facility may keep on hand a limited amount of non-prescription, 
over-the- counter medications. 
3. No intramuscular, subcutaneous, intravenous injectable, except for insulin 
and vitamin B-12, shall be allowed. 
4. Insulin or vitamin B-12 may be administered only if the resident is able to 
administer his/her own injectable, or is administered by a licensed nurse. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.14.2 Labeling.  The medications of all residents shall be clearly labeled. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.14.3 Storage of Prescription Medications.  Proper storage of all prescription 
medications shall be provided. 
1. All residents' prescription medications shall be stored in a secured area.  The 
area shall be kept locked when not in use, with responsibility for the key 
designated in writing. 
2. The prescription medication storage area shall be well-lighted, well-
ventilated, and kept in a clean and orderly fashion.  The temperature of the 
medication storage area should not exceed 85 degrees Fahrenheit at any time. 
3. A refrigerator shall be provided for the storage of prescription medications 
requiring refrigeration.  If the refrigerator houses food or beverages, the 
residents’ prescription medications shall be stored in a covered container or 
separate compartment.  All refrigerators shall be equipped with 
thermometers. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1168>>>
 
1168 
  
Rule 83.14.4 Responsibility. A non-resident employee, appointed by the operator, shall be 
responsible for the following: 
1. Storage of prescription medications. 
2. Keeping a current prescription medication list, including frequency and 
dosage, which shall be updated at least every thirty (30) days, or with any 
significant change. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.14.5 Disposal of Unused Prescription Medications.  In the event any prescription 
medication is no longer in use for any reason, it shall be disposed of in 
accordance with the regulations of the Mississippi State Board of Pharmacy. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 15. SOCIAL SERVICES 
Rule 83.15.1 The licensed facility shall make provisions for referring residents with social 
and emotional needs to an appropriate social services agency. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 16. RESIDENT ACTIVITIES 
Rule 83.16.1 Activities Program.  An activities program shall be in effect which is 
appropriate to the needs and interests of each resident. 
1. Adequate and activity-appropriate space shall be provided for the various 
resident activities. 
2. Activities shall be provided on daily basis. 
3. Available community resources shall be utilized in the activities program. 
4. Supplies shall be available to implement an adequate activities program. 
5. A non-resident employee shall be responsible for the activities program. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 17. PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT 
Rule 83.17.1 Required Areas/Rooms.  The following areas/rooms are required to be 
provided in a licensed facility: 
1. Bedrooms; 
<<<PAGE 1169>>>
 
1169 
  
2. Living room; 
3. Dining Area; 
4. Toilet and bathing facilities; 
5. Laundry; and 
6. Kitchen. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.2 Bedrooms. 
1. Location. 
a. All resident bedrooms shall have an outside exposure and shall not be 
below grade. Window areas shall not be less than one-eighth (1/8) of 
the floor area. The window sill shall not be over thirty-six (36) inches 
from the floor. Windows shall be operable. 
b. Resident bedrooms shall be located so as to minimize the entrance of 
unpleasant odors, excessive noise, and other nuisances. 
c. Resident bedrooms shall be directly accessible from the main corridor.  
In no case shall a resident bedroom be used for access to another 
resident bedroom nor shall a resident bedroom be used for access to a 
required outside exit. 
d. All resident bedrooms shall be so located that the resident can travel 
from his/her bedroom to a living room, day room, dining room, or 
toilet or bathing facility without having to go through another resident 
bedroom. 
e. Resident bedrooms shall house no more than four (4) persons each. 
2. Furnishings. 
a. Single beds shall be provided with good grade mattresses at least four 
(4) inches thick.  Cots and roll-away beds shall not be used. 
b. Each bed shall be equipped with a pillow and clean linens to include 
sheets, pillow cases, spreads and blankets.  An adequate supply of such 
linens shall be provided at all times to allow for a change of linen at 
least once a week. 
c. Chest of drawers or similar adequate storage space shall be provided 
for the clothing, toilet articles, and personal belongings of each 
resident. 
<<<PAGE 1170>>>
 
1170 
  
d. Adequate closet space shall be provided for each resident. 
e. An adequate number of comfortable, sturdy chairs shall be provided. 
f. At least one (1) mirror, a minimum of 18” x 24”, shall be provided in 
each bedroom. 
g. The opportunity for personal expression shall be permitted. 
h. A resident shall be permitted to use personal furnishings in lieu of 
those provided by the licensed facility, when practical. 
3. Floor Area.  Minimum usable floor area per bed shall be 80 square feet 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.3 Living Room.  Living rooms, daybooks, and/or recreation rooms shall be 
provided for resident and visitors.  Each licensed facility shall provide at least 
two (2) areas for this purpose:  one (1) for small groups such as a private visit 
with relatives and friends; and one (1) for larger group activities.  The living 
room must be equipped with attractive, functional, and comfortable furniture in 
sufficient number to accommodate all residents.  A minimum of 18 square feet 
per bed shall be provided. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.4 Dining Area.  A dining area shall be provided which shall be adequate to seat 
all residents at the same meal seating.  The dining area may also be used for 
social, recreational, and/or religious services when not in use as a dining 
facility.  A minimum of 15 Square feet per bed shall be provided. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.5 Toilet and Bathing Facilities. 
1. Separate toilet and bathing facilities shall be provided, on each floor, for each 
sex in the following ratios as a minimum. 
Bathtubs/showers  1 per 12 or fraction thereof for each sex 
Lavatories   1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
Toilets   1 per 6 or fraction thereof 
2. A lavatory with mirror shall be provided in each toilet room or bedroom. 
3. Bathtubs and showers shall be equipped with grab bars, towel racks and non-
glass shower enclosures.  Commodes shall be equipped with grab bars. 
<<<PAGE 1171>>>
 
1171 
  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.6 Laundry.  Laundry facilities shall be provided unless commercial laundries are 
used. 
1. The laundry shall be located in a specifically designated area, and there shall 
be adequate room and space for sorting, processing and storage of soiled 
material.  Laundry rooms or soiled linen storage areas shall not open directly 
into a resident's bedroom or food service area.  Soiled materials shall not be 
transported through the food service area.  The laundry area shall be kept 
clean and orderly. 
2. If commercial laundry is used, separate satisfactory storage areas shall be 
provided for clean and soiled linens. 
3. Provisions shall be made for proper mechanical ventilation of the laundry. 
4. Provisions shall also made to prevent the recirculation of air through the 
heating and air-conditioning systems. 
5. Adequate and effective lint traps shall be provided for dryers. 
6. When laundry chutes are provided, they shall have a minimum diameter of 
two (2) feet; and they shall be installed with flushing ring, vent, and drain. 
a. An automatic sprinkler shall be provided at the top of the laundry 
chute and in any receiving room for a chute. 
b. A self-closing door shall be provided at the bottom of the chute. 
7. Laundry equipment shall be of the type to adequately perform the laundry 
needs of the facility.  The equipment shall be installed to comply with all 
local and state codes. 
8. There shall be a separate and designated area for the storage of clean linen. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.17.7 Kitchen. The kitchen area shall meet the requirements as set forth in these      
regulations.  
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 18.  GENERAL PHYSICAL PLANT 
Rule 83.18.1 Licensed Facility Classification. To qualify for a license, the facility shall be 
planned to serve the type of residents to be admitted and shall meet the 
requirements as set forth in these regulations. 
<<<PAGE 1172>>>
 
1172 
  
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.2 Location.  All facilities and licensed facilities shall be located so that they are 
free from undue noise, smoke, dust, or foul odors and shall not be located 
adjacent to disposal plants, railroad tracks, etc. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.3 Site.  The proposed site for facility must be approved by the licensing agency.  
Factors to be considered in approving a site shall be convenient to medical and 
hospital services, approved water supply and sewage disposal, public 
transportation, community services, services of an organized fire department, and 
availability to labor supply.  Not more than one-third (1/3) of a site shall be 
covered by a building(s) except by special approval of the licensing agency.  One 
example whereby approval may be granted is where the structure is to be placed 
in a very desirable location where the grounds are limited and very expensive.  
Where such approval is granted, the structure will be required to have a living 
room, day room, sun room, and recreational areas adequate to compensate for 
lack of required outside area. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.4 Local Restrictions.  The site and structure of all licensed facilities shall comply 
with local building, fire, and zoning ordinances.  Proof of compliance shall be 
submitted to the licensing agency. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.5 Transportation.  Licensed facilities shall be located on streets or roads which are 
passable at all times.  They should be located convenient to public transportation 
facilities. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.6 Communications.  There shall be no less than one telephone in the licensed 
facility and such additional telephones as are necessary to summon help in the 
event of fire or other emergency.  The telephone shall be listed under the official 
licensed name or title of the licensed facility. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
Rule 83.18.7 Occupancy.  No part of the licensed facility may be rented, leased, or used for 
any purpose not related to the operation of the licensed facility. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1173>>>
 
1173 
  
 
Rule 83.18.8 Basement:  The basement shall be considered as a story if one-half (1/2) or more 
of its clear height is above the average elevation of the ground adjoining the 
building on all sides. 
 
1. No resident shall be housed on any floor that is below ground level. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 19. SUBMISSIONS OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS, EFFECTIVE    
AUGUST 13, 2005 
Rule 83.19.1 Minor Alterations and Remodeling.  Minor alterations and remodeling which 
do not affect the structural integrity of the building, change functional operation, 
affect fire safety, or affect the license bed capacity, do not need to have plans 
submitted for review provided that a detailed explanation of the proposed 
alteration or remodeling is submitted to and approved by the licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.2 First Stage Submission-Preliminary Plans. 
1. First stage or preliminary plans shall include: 
a. Plot plan showing size and shape of entire site; location of proposed 
building and any existing structure(s); adjacent streets, highways, 
sidewalks, railroads, etc., all properly designated; and size, 
characteristics, and location of all existing public utilities. 
b. Floor plan showing over-all dimensions of building(s); location, size, 
and purpose of all rooms; location and size of all doors, windows, and 
other openings with swing of doors properly indicated; dimensions of 
all corridors and hallways; and location of stairs, elevators, 
dumbwaiters, vertical shafts, and chimneys. 
c. Outline specifications giving kinds and types of materials. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.3 Final Stage Submission-Working Drawings and Specifications. 
Final stage or working drawings and specifications shall include: 
1. Architectural drawings 
2. Structural drawings 
3. Mechanical drawings to include plumbing, heat, and air-conditioning 
<<<PAGE 1174>>>
 
1174 
  
4. Electrical drawings 
5. Detailed specifications 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.4 Approval of working drawings and specifications shall be obtained from the 
licensing agency in writing prior to the beginning of actual construction. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.5 Preparation of Plans and Specifications.  The preparation of drawings and 
specifications shall be executed by or under the immediate supervision of an 
architect who shall supervise construction and furnish a signed statement that 
construction was performed according to plans and specifications approved by the 
licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.6 Contract Modifications.  Any contract modification which affects or changes the 
function, design, or purpose of a facility shall be submitted to and approved by the 
licensing agency prior to the beginning of work set forth in any contract 
modification. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.7 Notification of Start of Construction.  The licensing agency shall be informed 
in writing at the time construction is begun. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.8 Inspections.  The licensing agency or its authorized representatives shall have 
access at all times to the work for inspection whenever it is in preparation or 
progress, and the owner shall ascertain that proper facilities are made available for 
such access and inspection. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.9 Limit of Approval.  In construction delayed for a period of exceeding six (6) 
months from the time of approval of final working plans and specifications, a new 
evaluation and/or approval shall be obtained from the licensing agency. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.19.10 Water Supply, Plumbing, Sewerage Disposal.  The water supply and sewerage 
disposal shall be approved by the local county health department and/or the 
Division of Sanitary Engineering, Mississippi State Department of Health.  No 
system of water supply, plumbing, sewerage, garbage, or refuse disposal shall be 
<<<PAGE 1175>>>
 
1175 
  
installed nor any such existing system materially altered or extended until 
complete plans and specifications for the installation, alteration, or extension have 
been so approved and submitted to the licensing agency for review and final 
determination. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 20. GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 83.20.1 Structural Soundness and Repair.  The building shall be structurally sound, free 
from leaks and excessive moisture, in good repair, and painted at sufficient 
intervals to be reasonably attractive inside and out.  Walls and ceilings of 
hazardous areas shall be one (1) hour fire resistance rating. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.2 Heating and Cooling Systems.  Adequate heating and cooling systems shall be 
provided to maintain inside temperature between 68 degrees Fahrenheit and 78 
degrees Fahrenheit depending on the season. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.3 Lighting.  Each resident's room shall have artificial light adequate for reading and 
other uses as needed.  There should be a minimum brightness of ten (10) foot 
candles of lighting for general use in residents' rooms and a minimum brightness 
of thirty (30) foot candles of lighting for reading purposes.  All entrances, 
hallways, stairways, ramps, cellars, attics, storerooms, kitchens, laundries, and 
service units shall have sufficient artificial lighting to prevent accidents and 
promote efficiency of service. Night lights shall be provided in all hallways, 
stairways, toilets, and bathing rooms. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.4 Emergency Lighting.  At least one functioning, battery-operated emergency light 
shall be provided in each hallway. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.5 Screens.  All screen doors and non-stationary windows shall be equipped with 
tight fitting, full length, sixteen (16) mesh screens.  Screen doors shall swing out 
and shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.6 Floors.  All floors shall be smooth and free from defects such as cracks, and shall 
be finished so that they can be easily cleaned.   
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
<<<PAGE 1176>>>
 
1176 
  
Rule 83.20.7 Walls and Ceilings.  All walls and ceilings shall be of sound construction, with 
an acceptable surface, and shall be maintained in good repair. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.8 Ceiling Height.  All ceilings shall have a height of at least seven (7) feet, except 
that a height of six (6) feet six (6) inches may be approved for hallways or toilets 
and bathing rooms where the lighting fixtures are recessed. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.9 Ramps and Inclines.  Ramps and inclines, where installed for the use of 
residents, shall not exceed one (1) foot of rise in ten (10) feet of run, shall be 
furnished with a non-slip floor, and shall be provided with handrails on both 
sides. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.10 Door Swing.  Exit doors, other than from a living unit, shall swing in the director 
of exit from the structure. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.11 Floor Levels.  All differences in floor levels within the building shall be 
accomplished by stairs of not less than three (3) six-inch risers, ramps, or inclines, 
and shall be equipped with handrails on both sides. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.12 Space Under Stairs.  Space under stairs shall not be used for storage purposes.  
All walls and doors shall meet the same fire rating as the stairwell. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.13 Interior Finish and Floor Coverings.  Interior finish and decorative material 
shall be not less than Class B and floor covering shall have a flame spread not to 
exceed 75. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.14 Fire Extinguishers.  Fire extinguishers of number, type, and capacity appropriate 
to the need shall be provided for each floor and for special fire hazard areas such 
as kitchen, laundry, and mechanical room.  All extinguishers shall be of a type 
approved by the licensing agency.  A vaporizing liquid extinguisher (such as 
carbon tetrachloride) will not be approved for use inside the building.  
Extinguishers shall be inspected and serviced periodically as recommended by the 
manufacturer.  The date of inspection shall be entered on a tag attached to the 
<<<PAGE 1177>>>
 
1177 
  
extinguisher and signed by a reliable inspector such as the local fire chief or 
representative of a fire extinguisher servicing company. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.15 Smoke Detectors.  Smoke detectors shall be installed in each hallway no more 
than thirty (30) feet apart, in all bedrooms and in all storage rooms.   
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.16 Trash Chutes.  Trash chutes are prohibited. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.17 Housekeeping and Maintenance.  The interior and exterior of the licensed 
facility shall be maintained in an attractive, safe and sanitary condition. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.18 Pest Control.  Pest control inspections and, if necessary, treatments, shall be 
made to control pests, vermin, insects and rodents, at a minimum of once every 
thirty (30) days, by a company that is licensed by the State of Mississippi.  The 
licensing agency may, in its discretion, require more frequent inspections and 
treatments.  The inspection and treatment reports shall be maintained at the 
licensed facility. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.19 Water Temperature.  The temperature of hot water at plumbing fixtures used by 
residents shall not exceed 115 degrees Fahrenheit and no less than 100 degrees 
Fahrenheit. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.20.20 Combustion Air.  Combustion air to all equipment requiring it must come from 
the outside. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 21. BUILDING REQUIREMENTS 
Rule 83.21.1 Building Protection.  Facilities licensed after August 13, 2005 shall be 
constructed to have;  
1. Building Protection. 
a. Automatic Sprinklers Required.  Facilities licensed after the effective date 
of these regulations shall be protected throughout by a supervised 
<<<PAGE 1178>>>
 
1178 
  
automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with the current edition 
of NFPA 13, Installation of Sprinkler Systems. 
b. In facilities licensed for sixteen (16) or fewer residents and where the 
characteristics of occupancy are comparable with one (1) and two (2) 
family residential fire potentials, an NFPA 13D-styled sprinkler system 
may be installed. 
2. Building Construction. 
a. Single story.  No requirements. 
b. Multi-story (less than four floors).  One hour fire resistance rating as 
prescribed by the current edition of the National Fire Protection 
Association (NFPA) Standard 220, types of Building Construction. 
(Example: Type II (111), or Type V (111). 
c. Mobile structures.  No mobile structures are acceptable for housing 
residents. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.2 Multi-story Building. Elevator Required.  No resident shall be housed in a 
building three stories and above unless the building is equipped with an elevator.  
The minimum cab size of the elevator shall be approximately six (6) feet eight (8) 
inches by five (5) feet and constructed of metal.  The width of the shaft door shall 
be at least three (3) feet six (6) inches.  The load weight capacity shall not be less 
than 2,500 pounds.  The elevator shaft shall be enclosed by construction of not 
less than a two-hour fire resistive rating.  Elevators shall not be counted as 
required exits. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.3 Hazardous Areas and Combustible Storage.  Heating apparatus and boiler and 
furnace rooms, basements, or attics used for the storage of combustible material 
and workrooms, shall be classified as hazardous areas and shall be separated from 
other areas by construction having a fire resistive rating of at least one (1) hour. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.4 Stairs.  Stairs shall be enclosed with at least one-hour fire rated construction. 
1. Handrails shall be provided on both sides of the stairs. 
2. The width of the stairs shall not be less than forty-four (44) inches.  
3. The stairs shall be well lighted at all times. 
<<<PAGE 1179>>>
 
1179 
  
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.5 Exit Doors.  Exit doors shall meet the following: 
1. At least two (2) remotely located exits shall be provided for each 
 occupied story of a facility. 
2. Dead end hallways in excess of twenty (20) feet are not allowed. 
3. Doors to the exterior shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches wide  and 
egress shall not be impeded by being locked. 
4. Exit doors shall swing in the direction of exit and shall not obstruct the 
 travel along any required exit. 
5. Doors leading to stairways shall be not less than thirty-six (36) inches 
 wide. 
6. Revolving doors shall not be used as required exits. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.6 Hallways and Passageways. 
1. Hallways and passageways shall be kept unobstructed. 
2. Hallways and passageways which lead to the outside from any required 
 stairway shall be enclosed as required for stairways. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.21.7 Mechanical and Electric Systems. 
1. Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and water 
systems installed shall meet the requirements of local codes and ordinances 
as well as the applicable regulation of the licensing agency. where there are 
no local codes or ordinances, the following codes and recommendations shall 
govern: 
a. National Electrical Code. 
b. National Plumbing Code. 
c. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning 
Engineers, Inc. 
d. Recommendations of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
e. Recommendations of American Gas Association. 
<<<PAGE 1180>>>
 
1180 
  
f. National Fire Protection Association. 
2. The heating of licensed facilities shall be restricted to steam, hot water, or 
warm air systems employing central heating plants, or Underwriters 
Laboratories approved electric heating.  The use of portable heaters of any 
kind is prohibited. 
a. Gas heaters provided they meet all of the following: 
i. A circulating type with a recessed enclosed flame so designed that 
clothing or other inflammable material cannot be ignited. 
ii. Equipped with a safety pilot light. 
iii. Properly vented to the outside. 
iv. Approved by American Gas Association or Underwriters 
Laboratories. 
b. An approved type of electrical heater such as wall insert type. 
3. Lighting (except for battery-operated emergency lighting) shall be  restricted 
to electricity. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
 
SUBCHAPTER 22. EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP) 
Rule 83.22.1 The licensed entity shall develop and maintain a written preparedness plan 
utilizing the “All Hazards” approach to emergency and disaster planning.  The 
plan must include procedures to be followed in the event of any act of terrorism or 
man-made or natural disaster as appropriate for the specific geographical location. 
The final draft of the Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), will be reviewed by the 
Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response, Mississippi State Department 
of Health, or their designates, for conformance with the “All Hazards Emergency 
Preparedness and Response Plan.”  Particular attention shall be given to critical 
areas of concern which may arise during any “all hazards” emergency whether 
required to evacuate or to sustain in place.  Additional plan criteria or a specified 
EOP format may be required as deemed necessary by the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness and Response.  The six (6) critical areas of consideration are:  
1. Communications:  Facility status reports shall be submitted in a format 
and a frequency as required by the Office of EOP. 
 
2. Resources and Assets 
 
<<<PAGE 1181>>>
 
1181 
  
3. Safety and Security 
 
4. Staffing 
 
5. Utilities  
 
6. Clinical Activities.  
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
Rule 83.22.2 Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) must be exercised and reviewed annually or 
as directed by the Office of Emergency Preparedness and Response. Written 
evidence of current approval or review of provider EOPs, by the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness and Response, shall accompany all applications for 
facility license renewals. 
 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
SUBCHAPTER 23. FACILITY FIRE PREPAREDNESS 
Rule 83.23.1 Fire Drills. Fire drills shall be conducted one (1) per shift per quarter. Employees 
shall participate in a fire drill at least four (4) times per year. 
Written Records.  Written records of all drills shall be maintained, indicating 
content of and attendance at each drill.  A fire evacuation plan shall be posted in 
each facility in a conspicuous place and kept current. 
Source:  Miss. Code  Ann. §43-11-13 
CHAPTER 84  MINIMUM STANDARDS OF OPERATION FOR COUNTY 
HEALTH DEPARTMENTS 
Subchapter 1 GENERAL:  LEGAL AUTHORITY 
Rule 84.1.1     Adoption of Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards.  By virtue of the 
authority vested in it by Mississippi Code Annotated §41-3-15, or as otherwise 
amended, the Mississippi State Department of Health does hereby adopt and 
promulgate the following Rules, Regulations, and Minimum Standards for 
Operation for County Health Departments .  
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.1.2 Purpose.  The purpose of these minimum standards is to protect and promote the 
public welfare by providing for the development, establishment, maintenance, and 
operation of “county health departments and county health department buildings” 
which will ensure safe, sanitary, and nationally recognized best practice standards 
for public health clinic services for Mississippians. 
<<<PAGE 1182>>>
 
1182 
  
 City and County governments provide county health department buildings 
throughout the state.  The department provides staffing, technical expertise, and 
coordination of public health programs designed to protect and advance the 
health, well-being and safety of everyone in Mississippi. 
 Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-53 authorizes the board of supervisors to: 
1. make such appropriations for the department of health as may be 
necessary to pay the salary of the director, and salaries of all necessary 
sanitary inspectors, nurses, and such other employees as may be employed 
for carrying on the work;  
 
2. to pay all necessary traveling expenses of said employees in the 
performance of their duties;   
 
3. to pay for all necessary medicine, materials, and supplies; and   
 
4. to do any and all things necessary and proper to maintain and support a 
health department. 
In addition, Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-53, states that the board of supervisors shall 
provide an office for its health department, and furnish said office, and its 
employees, with all necessary record books, stationery, stamps, tables, chairs, 
furniture and all other necessary articles.   
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 and §41-3-53 
 
Rule 84.1.3 Definitions 
1. “American Disabilities Act (ADA) Standards for Accessible Design” 
means the standards known as the 2010 Standards for State and Local 
Government Facilities Title II. 
 
2. “County Health Department” means a local public health clinic operated 
by the department. 
 
3. “County Health Department Building” means a building provided by the 
city or county to operate a County Health Department. 
 
4. “Department, the Department, or MSDH” means the Mississippi State 
Department of Health, as established by Miss. Code Ann. §43-3-1, et seq. 
(Rev. 2006). 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
<<<PAGE 1183>>>
 
1183 
  
Rule 84.1.4 Inspections Required.  The Department shall inspect each county health 
department building on an annual basis at such intervals the Department may 
direct.  The Department and/or its authorized representatives shall have the right 
to inspect construction work in progress.  New county health department 
buildings shall not be operated as a county health department without having first 
been inspected for compliance with these rules, regulations, and minimum 
standards.   
 
A report of any inspection performed on a county health department building will 
be provided to the applicable board of supervisors and/or other applicable local 
officials, and the Chief, Community Health and Clinical Services. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 84.1.5 Corrective Action Plan.  If the Department determines a county health 
department building is not in compliance with these minimum standards, the 
Department may require that the county board of supervisors submit a corrective 
action plan that demonstrates a good-faith effort to remedy each violation by a 
specific date, subject to the approval of the Department.  
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 84.1.6     Codes and Ordinances.  Every county health department building located inside 
the boundaries of a municipality shall comply with all local municipal codes and 
ordinances applicable thereto.  In addition, each county health department 
building shall comply with all applicable state and federal laws. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Subchapter 2  LIFE SAFETY CODES: PHYSICAL PLANT AND OPERATIONAL  
STANDARDS 
Rule 84.2.1     Construction. 
1. Existing county health department buildings, as of the date of this 
standard, may meet, at a minimum, Existing Business Occupancies 
chapter of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, current edition. 
 
2. In the event of the construction of a new county health department 
building or substantial modification of an existing facility, any 
subsequent edition of NFPA, Life Safety Code may be used, provided 
the local jurisdiction approve the use of such edition and that all 
construction and/or modifications meet the requirements of the 
approved edition. 
 
<<<PAGE 1184>>>
 
1184 
  
3. Automatic sprinklers, if required by local jurisdiction shall be installed 
in accordance with the current edition of NFPA 13, Installation of 
Sprinkler Systems. 
 
4. Fire extinguishers shall be available in every county health department 
building in accordance with NFPA 10, Standards for Portable Fire 
Extinguishers. 
 
5. Fire alarms and smoke detectors, if installed in a county health 
department building shall be in accordance with current edition of 
NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code. 
 
6. The county health department building shall provide sufficient space 
and equipment for patient and visitor waiting areas, examination and 
treatment rooms, and for staff and administrative areas.  Exam rooms 
shall each have at least 80 square feet of area. 
 
7. Entrances for patients shall be connected to the public right-of-way by 
a hard-surfaced, unobstructed walkway in good repair.  Access for 
handicapped individuals shall be provided at a minimum of one 
entrance.  A hard-surfaced, unobstructed road or driveway for use by 
ambulance or other emergency vehicles shall run from at least one 
entrance of the building to the public right-of-way.  The doorway of 
such entrance shall be immediately adjacent to the road or driveway.  If 
such doorway is not on the same level as the road, a ramp shall provide 
a continuous, unobstructed plane to the entrance. 
 
8. Clinic services provided in multi-story county health department 
buildings shall be accessible by an elevator of adequate size to 
accommodate a standard wheeled litter patient with two attendants.  
Multi-story county health department buildings will be considered to 
have met this requirement when patients are located only on ground 
level floors with outside exits.   
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.2.2 The county health department building shall be constructed, equipped, and 
maintained to assure the safety of patients and personnel.  The following 
requirements shall apply: 
 
1. Exam rooms shall be designed and located to prevent traffic through 
them to any other part of the county health department. 
 
<<<PAGE 1185>>>
 
1185 
  
2. The walls and floors of examination rooms and staff dressing areas will 
be of material that will permit frequent washing and cleaning. 
 
3. Toilet and handwashing facilities shall be accessible to patients and 
staff and meet American Disabilities Act (ADA) accessibility 
standards.  Bathrooms shall be equipped with handrails for toilets and 
showers.  Convenient handwashing facilities shall be provided for both 
staff and patients and shall be provided with soap dispenser and 
individual or disposable towels.  Infant changing tables should be 
available in both men’s and women’s restrooms. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
Rule 84.2.3 The county health department building shall be arranged and organized in such 
a manner as to ensure the comfort, safety, hygiene, privacy, and dignity of 
patients treated therein. 
1. The county health department building shall provide space and facilities 
for administrative activities, including offices, and storage of supplies. 
 
2. A waiting room and patient registration area shall be provided.   
 
3. The county health department building must facilitate appropriate 
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the privacy 
of protected health information.  In an area where multiple patient-staff 
communications routinely occur, use of cubicles, dividers, shields, 
curtains, or similar barriers may constitute a reasonable safeguard. For 
example, a large clinic intake area may reasonably use cubicles or 
shield-type dividers, rather than separate rooms, or providers could add 
curtains or screens to areas where discussions often occur between 
practitioners and patients or among professionals treating the patient. 
 
4. For county health departments providing moderate or high complexity 
testing there shall be enough space, ventilation, and utilities necessary 
to conduct testing and minimize contamination. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.2.4 All electrical work and equipment shall be designed and installed in accordance 
with state and local laws and ordinances. 
1. All areas of the county health department building shall have sufficient 
artificial lighting for designated purposes. 
 
<<<PAGE 1186>>>
 
1186 
  
2. All county health department buildings shall have an alternative 
lighting source for emergency use in the event of a power failure. 
 
3. All county health departments shall have a transfer switch for 
connection to emergency generators that supports, at minimum, critical 
functions of the county health department. 
 
4. There shall be a local plan for providing emergency power to local 
county health department buildings. 
 
5. It is recommended that each county health department building be 
equipped with adequate generating power to maintain full power to the 
building in the case of power failure. 
 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.2.5 All county health department buildings shall have a preventive maintenance 
program to ensure that all essential mechanical, electrical and patient-care 
equipment is maintained in safe operating conditions. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.2.6 All county health department buildings shall be set up to ensure proper storage 
of drugs, vaccines, and biologicals. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Rule 84.2.7 All county health department buildings will have sufficient parking for staff 
and patients on a maintained paved or concrete surface and have visible 
parking lines.  Accessible parking spaces shall be in accordance with ADA 
accessibility standards and at least one of every six accessible spaces, or 
fraction of six, in each parking lot must be sized to accommodate vans. 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
Subchapter 3 MAINTENANCE   
Rule 84.3.1 County health department buildings shall be inspected and properly maintained to 
ensure delivery of services including, but not limited to: 
1. Roofs 
2. Windows and doors 
3. Electrical systems 
4. Heating and air conditioning systems 
5. Plumbing 
<<<PAGE 1187>>>
 
1187 
  
6. Paint 
7. Parking lots 
8. Signage 
9. Emergency generators if on-site 
SOURCE:  Miss. Code Ann. §41-3-15 
 
 
 